Ahead of the March 11th governorship election, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the major opposition, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have gone into war of words in their struggles to produce Governor Nasir El-Rufai’s successor. APC in Kaduna State accused the opposition PDP in the state of planning to cause trouble in the state and called on security agencies to hold the party chieftains responsible for any breakdown of law and order However, a spokesperson of the PDP in the State, Yakubu Lere, accused APC of buying Opel vehicles and giving them to Imams in the state so as to preach in favour of the APC gubernatorial candidate, Uba Sani, during the next Friday Juma’at sermon. However, Ibraheem Musa, Director of Strategic Communication of the APC Campaign Council in Kaduna State,said in a statement that “the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) should be held responsible for any breach of peace in Kaduna state before, during and after the gubernatorial election and one of its spokesmen should be invited by security agents to shed more light on the looming breakdown of law and order that he had earlier warned against.” “In a petition to security agents, the Assistant Director Public Affairs of its Kaduna state chapter, had raised an alarm over possible violence today, ”like what happened during Juma’at prayers in Katsina last week,” when PDP members protested the use of Islamic clerics. The petition, whose excerpts have gone viral, is somewhat ambiguous and lacks clarity, so security agents should ask the PDP spokesman to share his intelligence with them.” “For example, he should mention the people who will be using “Islamic clerics” during today’s Jumma’at prayers, and in what ways and manner they will do so.  Above all, the spokesman should reveal how the reaction of PDP members will lead to violence. Failing to give a satisfactory answer, the spokesman should be charged to court under extant laws of Kaduna state, for giving false information or concealment, defamation and public incitement.” “Ironically, rather than try to win the people’s support, given its locust years in office which citizens of Kaduna state rejected in 2015, PDP is trying to blackmail its way to office by intimidation, raising the spectre of violence and dragging our respected Islamic clerics into the murky waters of politics, in its desperation to grab power during the March 11 gubernatorial election.” “The residents of Kaduna state will not forget the 16 wasteful years of the PDP government in a hurry, when they had nothing to show for the huge statutory allocations that it had received from the Federation Account, in terms of development. By the Grace of God and with the support of the good people of Kaduna state, Distinguished Senator Uba Sani, the APC Gubernatorial Candidate, will sustain this positive trajectory when elected  Governor,” the APC Campaign Council added. This came amidst the rumour that Labour Party (LP) governorship candidate in the State, Hon. Jonathan Asake, has agreed to step-down and align with the PDP’s Hon. Isa Ashiru. But chieftains of Labour Party, under the auspices of Think Tank of Quality Leadership and Good Governance, denied the rumour, saying Asake remains the best of all the candidates and cannot step down for any candidate. Briefing journalists in Kaduna of Friday, leaders of the Labour Party group, High Chief Christopher Geoman and Chief Morrison Ikpeamaeze, expressed confidence that their candidate will win the gubernatorial election. They called on other opposition parties to settle for Hon. Jonathan Asake.