After navigating and finally crossing a ‘thousand’ rivers and rapids, some of them infested with political sharks and crocodiles, the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate Bola Ahmed Tinubu took the presidency by a healthy and unbridgeable margin in excess of 1.8 million votes compared with his nearest competitor’s votes. The third runner-up, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), who is incidentally the most competent among the dissenting presidential candidates, will not be heading to court. He has proved his point, and he knew from the beginning that he stood no chance of winning. But first and second runners-up, former vice president Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former Anambra governor Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP) respectively, having emerged from the same political stock but parted ways shortly before the votes, have opted to challenge the winner. Both the winner and first runner-up won 12 states, while Mr Obi won 11 and the Federal Capital City (FCT), Abuja. Despite the impending legal fireworks over whether the scale of irregularities observed in the poll was strong enough to vitiate the poll outcome, Asiwaju Tinubu won as projected, a fact his opponents scorn, a fact the LP’s social media warriors have railed and campaigned against with the same fervid and terroristic style as before. Indeed, out of Nigeria’s six geopolitical zones, the APC candidate took the most difficult and problematic Southwest, Northwest and North-Central, and was first runner-up in the remaining zones of Northeast, South-South and Southeast. It is a mystery why the PDP and LP as well as many bitter and angry former leaders and senior politicians are disputing the victory. They insist the election was flawed obviously in the states where the first and second runners-up lost, but apparently untainted or statistically repressed in the states they won. They are not discomfited by the fact that the PDP and LP divided the votes that should have accrued to the PDP. In defending his readiness to litigate the APC victory, Alhaji Atiku admitted that the LP took states that traditionally voted the PDP. And yet he insists he won the February 25 poll. Mr Obi himself became a candidate as an afterthought, after seizing the candidacy of the LP a mere nine months before the election. It is obvious that the main litigant will be the LP. Alhaji Atiku is in the legal jousting only because he would not want his first runner-up position invalidated should Mr Obi win his case. Should the APC be dethroned, the PDP and LP would naturally turn on each other. But matters are unlikely to get that far, regardless of the incendiary provocations by Mr Obi’s frenzied social media warriors and supporters, and notwithstanding ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo’s proud and unguarded fulminations, nor some religious leaders’ exaggerated and bad-tempered utterances. Two weeks before the presidential poll, this column indicated clearly and without hesitation that the APC candidate would win without the run-off some analysts speculated. Alhaji Atiku, the column also argued, was at the head of a bitterly divided and weakened party, and the moralising Mr Obi was not only pedantic and destitute of administrative and ideological depth, but it was also inconceivable that he would find the time, ideology and commonsense to penetrate the Northwest, Southwest and Northeast. The column concluded that though Mr Obi would harness the bible belts of the six zones to a very limited extent and even harvest some youth votes, it was still mathematically and rationally impossible for him to win. Much more, this column suggested that should Mr Obi theoretically make it to the presidency, a possibility that was next to nothing, the country would fray at the edges in no distant time. The reasons were not far-fetched. One, Mr Obi, despite working his sorcery on many Nigerians, especially the church, youths and idealists, was unprepared for leadership. He made a hash of ruling Anambra, was and remains a dictator at heart, and his perspectives have been so pedestrian and ad hoc that it is impossible to explain why his supporters, including the conceited Chief Obasanjo, are enamoured of him. Two, his supporters and activists on social media were so frenzied and irrational that they had become indistinguishable from real, armed terrorists. They would bully anyone and abuse anyone who dared to oppose their Teflon candidate or question his bona fides. Should he win, the bullying would not stop, and the candidate himself, just like he had failed to condemn the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and deplore their bloodletting, would secretly relish and exploit their fanaticism. Three, unable to take the Northwest and Southwest, not to say the Northeast, he would be unable to pacify the three zones, let alone mollify what was certain to be their bitter recriminations. And having unscrupulously drained the church of its principles, values, and doctrines, and thus divided Nigeria along sectarian lines, it would be a matter of time before the dynamics of religious antagonisms consume his administration. Both Alhaji Atiku and Mr Obi have signified their readiness to litigate their defeats. They reserve the right to go to court. But they will lose again. It is simple mathematics: no formula exists by which half of something becomes whole of something. In the interim, Mr Obi’s elderly and youthful supporters will keep up a vicious and bitter campaign to delegitimise the February 25 poll. They have enlisted the support of senior citizens and youths whose loud denunciations on social media give the wrong impression of reality, but are nevertheless capable of rousing the disaffected into a potentially catastrophic ‘occupy Nigeria’ campaign. The administration is probably aware that these campaigns reflect an amalgam of curious and conflicting interests and are an indirect effort to stalemate and annul the poll victory, up to the point of diminishing it into an interim government, or impasse, or fresh elections. It is the route taken by Mali to that country’s regret and retrogression. In Nigeria, it could lead to far more cataclysmic reactions eventually crystallising into ethnic and religious crises, if not anarchy. The administration has enough information to preempt the madness afoot. Since early 2022, the administration has not demonstrated the even-handedness needed to keep the ruling APC on an even keel. It mismanaged the party’s primary, half-heartedly skewed it in favour of an unpopular aspirant, and when it failed to arrest the rotational arrangement that eventually produced today’s president-elect, it punitively embarked on a welter of economic and political measures that combined to whittle the strength of its candidate. The Supreme Court has finally pronounced on one of those key economic measures that alienated the people from both the administration and the APC candidate. Short of going to court to litigate its own primary, the APC finally relented, backed its candidate, albeit grudgingly, but didn’t seem concerned about any untoward outcome. Weeks to the poll, after every effort to eviscerate the ruling party’s candidate had wilted before determined supporters led by the party’s governors, the president himself clambered on to the bandwagon and led the charge. Even then, victory was not immediately assured. The EndSARS generation, full of loathing and rebellion, and egged on by shortsighted elders and leaders, began a horrendous campaign of calumny and unprintable scurrilities directed against the APC candidate. The PDP candidate was left severely alone. The youth displayed a sense of entitlement never seen in these parts, as they terrorised dissenters and rallied to the side of Mr Obi. Uncharacteristically, and reflecting the aggressive diminution of the principles and doctrines that have stood the church in good stead as they brought empires to heel, many church leaders seized upon the APC’s same-faith ticket to spew the most hateful, curse-laden rhetoric and sermons unprecedented in their history, enough to make John Knox wince and Girolamo Savonarola grimace. Instead of the impartiality and love and compassion their faith is known for, religious leaders cursed their members if they as much as looked in the direction of the APC. And even after failing to prevent the election of Asiwaju Tinubu, some religious leaders have doubled down to wish doom and catastrophe upon the president-elect. March would be the time of judgement, they said. And there would be no swearing in, they chorused in undiluted spite. Religion became the standard for public office, not competence. More circumspect faith leaders, former presidents, and political leaders would perforce pause to ask why one man could not be stopped by his party, stopped by faith leaders, stopped by an administration which alienated him for eight years and would stop at nothing to demolish him, and why despite policies that turned the electorate against the ruling party, even the votes on February 25 could not stop him. Surely, there must be something about him. If, as his supporters rhapsodise, he is incomparable in his leadership ability, unrestrained in his mentoring propensity, is the most competent among the leading contenders for the presidency, is naturally gifted in managing complex systems, is unquestionably secular, has the most convincing understanding of public and global finance, and is best placed to manage a modern economy, could he then not be a gift to Nigeria? No extraterrestrial obstacle was placed in the paths of Alhaji Atiku and Mr Obi, and even when the CBN rushed out its ill-conceived and poorly implemented naira swap policy, the APC candidate seemed to be the main target, especially with the other candidates acquiescing to CBN’s unlawful overreach. But instead of pausing to ask questions, the conspiracy to delegitimise the presidential election has gathered steam, with all the conspirators encouraging and instigating treason and taking oath to forestall the May 29 inauguration. The administration must take steps to end its dithering. The election must not be allowed to become another June 12, 1993 debacle. Mr Obi largely harnessed a significant percentage of the church and youth votes to take two zones and get more than six million ballots; he could not win or rule resting on those divisive and inimical pedestals. Alhaji Atiku was humiliatingly sequestered into the Northeast, a sad declension for the once mighty PDP which for more than eight years had proved incapable of managing its crises and failings. The PDP could not have won. The winner, had Nigerians been capable of reflecting on the events since the past few years, and as every great statesman or war general knows, is actually God who sowed distrust in PDP and hardened the hearts of party leaders against reconciliation, blunted the Buhari administration’s self-destructive propensity, mysteriously placated the electorate over the CBN’s unconstitutional excursions, and even introduced the fourth man in the fire lit by the church thereby ensuring that the APC candidate’s tunic was not singed. What happened on February 25 was not normal; it was extraordinary and unusual. The fear now is that before the whole affair is ended on May 29 – and there will be an inauguration – many more notable people will be demystified and their reputations torn to shreds. The president may leave with a part of his reputation unscathed. Others will not be so lucky. Consider the statistics. In the Northeast, the only zone where Alhaji Atiku took first, the PDP led with 51.7 percent of the votes using the four leading parties as basis for comparison. APC came second with a healthy 35.2 percent. In the North-Central, APC led with 42.3 percent to LP’s 28.7 percent and PDP’s 27.6 percent. The spread between the parties is realistic in view of the factors that influenced voting in that zone. In the Southwest, APC took 55.8 percent to PDP’s 23.1 percent and LP’s 20.7 percent. The contest was also open and democratic. In the Southeast, LP took 89.6 percent while the nearest opponents, the APC and PDP, took 5.8 percent and 4.2 percent respectively. The country cannot fail to notice how that zone closed ranks. And in the Northwest, the APC led with 40.2 percent to PDP’s 35.3 percent and NNPP’s 19.2 percent. Overall, the votes seem to give a clear hint of how to win a presidential election. Neither Alhaji Atiku nor Mr Obi paid heed, and they paid the price for their inattentiveness. The balloting and collation processes undoubtedly suffered hitches and attacks, but given how APC heavyweights and iconic states suffered election losses and drubbings, those litigating the election will be hard put to prove their cases. But they can try, especially the LP which got 25 percent in about 16 states instead of 24. The PDP has been markedly restrained from calling for Armageddon. Not so the LP whose supporters, including and chiefly Chief Obasanjo, have been calling for doomsday. What they did not get through the votes, nor by arresting the counting and collation process, nor feared they might not get through the courts, they hope to procure through defamatory and incitive social media campaigns and street action. But those are perilous routes whose ends no one can predict. If the unconstitutional campaigns are not stifled by firm constitutional response from the administration, they could become strident until they spiral out of control. Even though they are not as bilious as the LP, nor as bad-tempered and irreverent, it is expected that the APC will defend their victory. They probably understand that since 1999, this is the first time the country will be electing a real bridge-builder, a man who will not be pushed around, and someone who knows how to forge consensus and manage an economy on the scale of the Asian tigers. It would be tragic if the self-centred, anti-democratic and conspiratorial Chief Obasanjo, and entitled youths advocating visa bans against their leaders with perfect neo-colonial equanimity, and the contumacious pro-Obi social media fanatics who eulogise violence and hate speech are allowed to have a field day spewing extremist statements. The constitution envisages electoral infractions and disputes, and the laws of the land have provisions to mediate them. To willfully and arrogantly instigate conflagration because a particular outcome is not forthcoming is to incite rebellion against the constitution. Asiwaju Tinubu will undoubtedly be sworn in on May 29. Apart from offering olive branches to his opponents, he has also tried to reassure youths about their future. On the surface, it is a great gesture; but he needs to be cautious. While it is good to design policies targeted at youths, it must be done concomitantly with policies and programmes that purge the youths of indiscipline and the sense of entitlement they have arrogantly and indifferently nurtured over the years. After all, youth does not start and end with the imperious Southwest or Southeast. The country, of which the youth is a subset, must be holistically reengineered and policies conceived and implemented to forge unity, sense of values, and a great and ambitious future with youths coaxed to tap in. Asiwaju Tinubu is the first person to prepare himself for leadership, despite his humble and controversial beginnings. It is a miracle he is still standing after decades of fierce, unrelenting and defamatory attacks; that miracle should propel him into the State House in May. It will not be because he is perfect or that the election which midwifed his victory was flawless; it will be because he was destined to rule and, what is more, he has met that destiny with the fortitude, uncommon grace, generosity and faith few among Nigerian leaders, past or present, have managed to summon. The former Lagos governor is the first knowledgeable and self-confident leader Nigeria will be having since independence; that is why all hell has been let loose to prevent him from acceding the throne. It is one of the stupendous ironies of Nigerian politics and life that religious leaders who should be more perceptive and capable of reading the signs of the times are numbered among those obstacles and sceptics.