The All Progressives Congress (APC) has so far won majority of seats in both chambers of the National Assembly, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) announced yesterday. The APC has so far won 57 seats in the Senate and 162 seats in the House of Representatives out of the 423 legislative results so far released by the commission. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu who disclosed this a meeting with State Resident Electoral Commissioners (REC) in preparation for the governorship and State House of Assembly elections, said results from 98 Senatorial districts and 325 House of Representatives seats have so far been released. He said “In last Saturday’s elections, winners have also been declared for 423 national legislative seats while supplementary elections will be held in 46 constituencies. In the Senate, 98 out of 109 seats have been declared. So far, seven political parties have won senatorial seats while in the House of Representatives, 325 out of 360 seats have been won by eight political parties”. Parties that have won seats in the Senate are APC (57), APGA (1), LP (6), NNPP (2), PDP (29), SDP (2) and YPP (1) while those that have won seats in the House of Representatives are ADC (2), APC (162), APGA (4), LP (34), NNPP (18), PDP (102), SDP (2), YPP (1). He said Certificates of Return will be presented to Senators-elect on Tuesday 7th March 2023 at 11.00am at the National Collation Centre (the International Conference Centre), Abuja, while members of the House of Representatives-elect will receive theirs the following day, Wednesday 8th March 2023, at 11.00am at the same venue. “However, for effective crowd management, each Senator/Member-elect should be accompanied by a maximum of two guests. The comprehensive list of all members-elect will be uploaded to the Commission’s website shortly.” This is just as INEC announced on Saturday that any proven cases of infraction identified from the conduct of last Saturday’s presidential and NASS election will be redressed by the commission in line with the provisions of the law. The INEC Chairman also said that any staff of the commission, whether regular or adhoc found to have compromised during last Saturday elections will not be allowed to participate in the governorship and state Houses of Assembly elections. He directed that disciplinary action be initiated against such staff immediately. Speaking at a meeting with Resident Electoral Commissioners, the INC boss said the commission has received reports from the State offices well as complaints and petitions from political parties and candidates. He said the purpose of the meeting was to discuss the conduct of the 2023 General Election, review the performance of the commission in the Presidential and National Assembly elections and assess preparation for the Governorship and State Assembly elections. The INEC boss said further that “as we approach the Governorship and State Assembly elections, we must work harder to overcome the challenges experienced in the last election. Nothing else will be acceptable to Nigerians. All staff found to be negligent, whether they are regular or ad hoc officials, including Collation and Returning Officers, must not be involved in forthcoming elections. RECs must also immediately initiate disciplinary action where prima facie evidence of wrongdoing has been established. Speaking on logistics which became a problem in some states, he blamed the delay in deployment of staff on the centralisation of the exercise in some areas. On technology for the election, he said “the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) will once again be deployed for voter accreditation and result management. The deployment of BVAS has gone a long way to sanitise voter accreditation as can be seen from the result of recent elections. “Since last week, the Commission has intensified the review of the technology to ensure that glitches experienced, particularly with the upload of results are rectified. We are confident that going forward the system will run optimally”. PDP sweeps seats in Rivers Meanwhile, PDP has won 12 National Assembly seats in the state out of 14 so far concluded and declared by INEC. The APC) and the LP won one each. But INEC declared the Khana-Gokana Federal Constituency inconclusive following the margin of lead principle and suspended election in Port Harcourt II. The official results released by INEC showed that the PDP swept all the three senatorial district elections. The PDP’s candidates, Mpigi Barinada won the Rivers South East Senatorial District; Banigo Ipalibo Harry, the Deputy Governor, clinched the Rivers West while Onyesom Allwell Heacho won the Rivers East. In the 11 federal constituencies’ election, the APC’s Anderson Igbiks won the Okirika-Ogu Bolu and the LP’s Umezuruike Manuchim won the Port Harcourt 1. But the PDP cleared nine others with Nwogu Godspower winning Etche-Omuma Federal Constituency; Emerengwa Sunday, Ikwere Emohua; Obuzor Victor Amadi, Ahoada West/Ogba-Egbema-Ndoni and Goodhead Boma, Akuku-Toru/Asari-Toru. Others are Nwaeke Uche, Eleme-Tai-Oyigbo; Bob Solomon, Abua-Odua/Ahoada East; Abiante Dagomie, Andoni-Opobo-Nkoro; Hart Godwin, Degema-Bonny and Chinda Ogundu, Obio-Akpor.