Quadri Aruna came back from the brink of defeat to stun Germany’s Ruwen Filus in the first round of the men’s singles at the WTT Singapore Smash taking place at the Singapore Sports Hub’s OCBC Arena. Despite taking a lead in the first game at 14-12 against the defensive German, Aruna was made to work hard before waltzing his way to the second round of the lucrative tournament. Filus was a familiar opponent to the Nigerian and the match was a classic between attack and defence but it was Aruna that scraped over the line, taking the match 3-2 (14-12, 6-11, 11-3, 6-11, 11-9). The win ensured that Aruna roared his way to the round of 32. “It was 5-1 (to him), and then 7-2, and suddenly I won five points in a row. That was a very good comeback and I was focusing because six or seven years ago I experienced almost the same situation against him and I knew it was not over until it’s over. I kept my cool, I kept playing and in the end he made a few errors and that made a big difference,” Aruna admitted. The African champion added: “It’s not just that he was a tough opponent, we were together in the same team (in the German Bundesliga) for about two years and he knows me very well. I believe it was 50-50 before the game and as we have seen, it was 11-9 in the fifth game.” With the coin flip going Aruna’s way, he will now face French teenager Alexis Lebrun who edged out China’s Yuan Licen in the round of 64. The first African casualty at the Singapore Smash was Egypt’s Omar Assar who was beaten by Portugal’s Tiago Apolonia 3-0 in the round of 64 while his compatriots – Hana Goda and Mariam Alhodaby also tasted defeat against their German and Japanese opponents. Alhodaby, the 2021 African champion was set up against world number six and Japanese national champion Hina Hayata and it was the Asian star that won 3-1 (11-3, 9-11, 11-9, 11-6). Apart from Aruna, the other surviving African in the competition is Dina Meshref of Egypt who edged out home girls with a 3-1 win in the first round.