One of the big issues in the just concluded presidential and federal legislative assembly elections was the concern for vote buying. Many Nigerians accepted the harsh currency redesign policy of the Federal Government when it was touted as a measure to curb that electoral offence. The security agencies were also primed to forestall or deal with any case of vote buying. In Lagos and Port Harcourt, some persons were arrested with huge sums of money allegedly for vote buying. In the Lagos incident, the Head of Media and Publicity of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Wilson Uwujaren, announced that a man with N32.4 million naira was intercepted. He said the commission was determined to deter vote trading and other financial malfeasance during elections. Also, the commission has established telephone hotlines and tactical teams across the states to check financial inducement at elections. The police in Port Harcourt arrested a serving member of the House of Representatives, Dr Chinyere Igwe, with $498,100, allegedly for buying votes for the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). We condemn selling or buying of votes, and urge that any person caught doing that be dealt with according to the law. Section 127 of the 2022 Electoral Act provides: “A person who – (a) corruptly by his or herself or by any other person at any time after the date of an election has been announced, directly or indirectly gives or provides or pays money to or for any person for the purpose of corruptly influencing that person or any other person to vote or refrain from voting at such election, or on account of such person or any other person having voted or refrained from voting at such elections; or (b) being a voter, corruptly accepts or takes money or any other inducement during any of the period stated in paragraph (a), commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of N100,000 or imprisonment for a term of 12 months or both.” We look forward to the prosecution of those arrested and others who may engage in electoral offences in the forthcoming gubernatorial and state legislative elections. No doubt, vote selling and buying distort the result of elections, and every legitimate effort should be made to eradicate the monster. We commend the security agencies who took proactive steps to forestall vote buying in our elections, and hope that Nigerians have learnt necessary lessons from the reported incidents. We also note that Nigerians suffered untold hardship as a result of the currency redesign. It is strange that despite the scarcity of the new currency, the person arrested in Lagos had N32.4 million of the scarce new notes in his possession. We urge the security agencies to investigate the source of the new notes, even as they pursue the offences against the Electoral Act and Money Laundering laws. Nigerians would want to know from which source the money was procured. If it was through the banks, Nigerians would want to know if any laws were broken, and which banks were involved. The claims and counter-claims by the Central Bank and the commercial banks with respect to the release of the scarce new currency could get evidential support from the results of investigating the apprehended culprit with the new naira notes. The judgement of the Supreme Court overruling President Muhammadu Buhari and the Central Bank on the demonetisation policy should not eschew a thorough investigation of the incident as it relates to the currency redesign imbroglio. Also, the emergence of a new government should not stop the furtherance of all genuine efforts to curb vote buying.