Two prominent chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Tein Jack-Rich and Chief (Mrs.) Remi Adiukwu, have congratulated the President-elect, Bola Tinubu and Vice President-elect, Sen. Kashim Shettima, for winning the February 25, 2023 presidential election. The politicians, in separate statements on Saturday in Abuja, said Tinubu’s victory was well deserved. Jack-Rich, a businessman and philanthropist, enlisted the cooperation and support of all Nigerians including other candidates who contested the presidential election to join hands with the former Lagos State governor to build an egalitarian country that will work for all and sundry.  According to him, “now is the time to build bridges for the good of our nation and not plot to tear it apart.” The statement said: “I write on behalf of my wife, Dr. Mrs. Elizabeth Jack-Rich, members of the Presidential Campaign Council from Rivers State and the entire APC family in Rivers State to felicitate with you and the Vice President-Elect over your well-deserved victory in the just concluded presidential election in Nigeria.” The former APC presidential aspirant who doubles as the deputy director of the Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) Fundraising Committee, who is the President/Founder of Belemaoil Producing Limited, an indigenous oil Exploration Company in Nigeria, expressed optimism that Tinubu and Shettima presidency will usher in a new dawn for Nigeria and promote inclusivity in governance for national good. Adiukwu, a former gubernatorial candidate in Lagos State, who served as a commissioner during Tinubu’s tenure as governor of the state, also felicitated with Senator Oluremi Tinubu, wife of the president-elect, as well as Senator Shettima, the Vice President-elect. Read Also: Tinubu commends Liadi Tella’s contributions to media, nation-building @ 75  “It is with a heart full of thanksgiving and adoration to God almighty that I warmly congratulate you, the flagbearer of our great party, the All Progressives Congress, (APC) His Excellency, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on the well deserved and hard earned victory at the 2023 presidential elections held on Saturday February 25, 2023 across the country. I salute the foresight, resilience and planning that culminated in your declaration as the President-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “As a co-traveller in your politics and administrations, I make bold to say your desire for a better Nigeria is the main thrust behind your political aspirations right from the word go. And coming to take the presidential seat is the reward for painstaking planning and bridge building of decades. With our admirable First Lady, Senator Oluremi Tinubu beside you all these years, providing much needed supports, you have dreamt and planned on what needed to be done to achieve the desire of having the chance to retool Nigeria. “In your previous years of public service, you have demonstrated a consistent fidelity to progressive and welfarist ideals, and an ability to build bridges across several divides. These attributes are needed especially at this time, to engage stakeholders across the country and reengineer the structures so as to give Nigerians the new Nigeria they yearn for. “I also congratulate His Excellency, Senator Kashim Shettima on his declaration as Vice President-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. It is my sincere belief that he will work with you to bring about the Nigeria you have always talked about – a Nigeria where great things happen; a united, viable and prosperous nation’ Adiukwu wrote in her congratulatory message.