Next week, the people of the Yobe state in the northeast geo-political zone will troop out to elect the governor that will run the affairs of the state for the next four years. Assistant Editor, ‘Dare Odufowokan, examines the state of the race. THE 2023 gubernatorial election in Yobe State will run concurrently with elections to the Yobe State House of Assembly. Incumbent Governor Mai Mala Buni, who is rounding off his first term of four years in office, is seeking another term in office on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Before now, pundits have said in spite of the presence of about ten other parties in the contest, the race for the governorship in the state is a straight one between the ruling APC and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Buni had clinched the APC gubernatorial ticket unopposed last May. Announcing the result in Damaturu, the Returning Officer, Umar Kareto, said Buni, the sole candidate in the election, was declared the winner and returned elected. He said 890 delegates were accredited for the election and 825 votes cast, adding that 805 votes were valid and 20 votes invalid. For the opposition PDP, Shariff Abdullahi emerged as the gubernatorial candidate in the state. He defeated two other aspirants to clinch the ticket. Before the presidential and National Assembly elections on February 25, the two leading political parties have left no one in doubt of their desire to win the governorship seat. While the APC relied on the power of incumbency as well as its well oiled political structure that traverses the length and breadth of the state to retain its control of the government, the PDP, which had ruled the state until 2015, assured its supporters that the people of the state are tired of the ruling party and will therefore vote for its candidates at the 2023 polls. Both parties campaigned vigorously across the state ahead of the elections. The PDP in the state said it was ready to break the hold of the APC on Yobe by winning all the elections and taking over the administration of the state after the general elections. The party fielded candidates for all elective positions in the state. In response, the ruling party said it will deny PDP 25%, not just in the presidential election, but in all elections across the state. According to Senate President Ahmed Lawan, PDP does not exist in Yobe state. Thus, the battle for the political soul of Yobe state was set between the APC and the PDP, though many analysts were of the opinion that the ruling party had an upper hand considering its wide spheres of influence in the state. This was the situation on the 25th of February, 2023, when the presidential and National Assembly elections were held in the state. The results of the elections proved many bookmakers wrong and revealed that the politics of Yobe state may actually be unpredictable. APC jolted At the end of proceedings on February 25, PDP’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, created an upset by winning the presidential election in Yobe State, a stronghold of the APC. Atiku, who polled 198, 567 votes, defeated Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the APC, who scored 151, 459, according to the results announced by the collation officer for the election in Yobe State. Many analysts have projected Yobe to be an easy ride for the ruling party. But the governor and other party chieftains failed to deliver victory to the party in the state. Not only did Atiku win the presidential election in the state, he defete many of the leading APC chieftains in their various strongholds. Governor Buni lost his Gujba Local Government Area to the PDP. PDP polled 8,204 votes against the 6,643 scored by the APC in the local government area. In the same vein, the incumbent Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, who is also a leading chieftain of the ruling party, lost his Potiskum Local Government Area. While the PDP polled 34,787 votes, APC trailed with 13,521 votes in the area. Also, Mohammed Hassan, the Director General of the APC Campaign Council in Yobe State and former PDP senator, who defected to the APC recently, joined the failed to deliver Potiskum to the APC. Ahmad Lawan, the Senate President and former presidential aspirant of the APC also lost his Bade Local Government with 15,789 to PDP as against 8081 votes for APC. The APC also lost in the local government area of the state party chairman, Mohammed Gadaka. APC had 12,419 votes, trailing PDP which scored 19,975. PDP also recorded victory in Fune Local Government Area where the state Deputy Governor, Idi Barde Gubana, hails from. PDP scored 18,308 votes, while APC scored 12,696 in Fune Local Government Area. Of the 17 local governments in Yobe State, the PDP won 12, leaving the remaining five for the APC. It was a shocking defeat for APC as PDP won the state with a difference of 47,108 votes. The opposition party had made good its vow of snatching victory from the hands of the ruling party. The APC was jolted. PDP upbeat Atiku’s victory in Yobe State emboldened PDP leaders and supporters across the state, who now believes that the governorship and the state House of Assembly elections will be a walk over for them in the state. Supporters of the opposition party in the state have been celebrating the outcome of the presidential election. To them, it signals the imminent exit of Governor Buni from the Government House. “Our party is ready to take over the government of Yobe state with this result. Yobe is a PDP state and they all know,” a party official said. The gubernatorial candidate of the PDP, Bashir Sadiq boasted after the results in Damaturu that Yobe will witness a change in government after the governorship election. He said: “What happened has given us confidence. It is more or less just a referendum for the gubernatorial election and we are going to win Yobe, In Sha Allahu come March 11th. Yobe will witness a change in government after the governorship election. The people have chosen PDP and we will not disappoint them In Sha Allahu.” Similarly, the deputy national chairman of PDP for the North, Ambassador Umar Iliya Damagun, said the party is poised to win the state on March 18. He said, “PDP looks good here in Yobe State. We have no problem. By the grace of God, we shall win our elections. We have been winning, we will win and we shall win again.” The PDP boss described Yobe as a PDP state where the APC cannot remain in office much longer. According to him, the result of the presidential election is a pointer to how the people will vote next week. Across the state, supporters of the opposition party are celebrating PDP’s victory at the presidential poll and boasting that the APC and its candidates will be defeated on March 18. The rivalry between the ruling APC and the opposition PDP is renewed and the political atmosphere in the state is turbo charged. The Nation leant that the PDP has stepped up its campaigns in places where necessary while holding crucial meetings with some groups and individuals in other political parties willing to form alliances with its candidate ahead of the governorship election. APC renews effort The declaration of the result has since given the state chapter of APC some sleepless nights. Expectedly, the party has gone back to the drawing board to see what went wrong and make amends. In spite of the setback, Buni and his men are still determined to retain their control of the state. Sources within and outside the party told The Nation that the governor, like every other member of the APC in Yobe state, was shocked by the outcome of the last election. “He is doing everything that has to be done,” a source said. The Nation gathered that the leadership of the party in the state is not resting on its oars ahead of the governorship election. “We are using the unfavourable result as a point of contact to critically examine out stand across the state and make corrections where necessary. Yobe people love APC. They appreciate Governor Buni and I and sure they will not reject him. All we need to do now is to understand what the people are saying and do the needful. We will win the governorship election on Saturday,” an official of the party said. Senator Lawan, who has won a return to the senate, is leading the renewed effort in Yobe North ahead of the 2023 gubernatorial election. During the week, he urged the people of Yobe State to vote massively for the State Governor, Hon. Mai Mala Buni on Saturday.  The senate President got his mandate renewed for a fifth term with massive votes at the February 25th National Assembly polls. APC also defeated the PDP to win the presidential election in Lawan’s senatorial district. Appreciating their support during the last election, the Senate President urged his constituents to redouble the support and votes which they gave him and the APC at the presidential and National Assembly polls and vote massively for the ruling party next Saturday to renew Buni’s mandate for a second term as Governor. Lawan spoke in his home town, Gashua, y while addressing APC stakeholders from his Local Government Area of Bade. Fresh appeals Lawan said said: “First and foremost, I wish to thank you APC stakeholders of Bade local government. Since the day I started contesting for elections in 1999, I have never seen an amazing election like this. I thank you all for voting me during the last elections. I was given certificate of return yesterday (Tuesday) in Abuja, an evidence of my clear victory. Nobody will argue or debate it. I won with about 75% of the total valid votes cast. It calls for joy. Undoubtedly, your support is spectacular. I urge you to continue to pray for me. “I serve as your Asiwaju here. The state government is closer to us. The support and votes which you gave me, I urge you to redouble it during the gubernatorial election on Saturday. Your votes count. After elections, votes determine the type and amount of seats you are to benefit or enjoy. On Saturday, let us make sure we win elections with wide margin. Bade Local Government has two gubernatorial candidates from other parties. Hence, there is a challenge. “Our Governor works with members of the House of Assembly. Here in Bade Local Government, we have two candidates contesting for the House of Assembly seats. Hon. Kabir Mai Mota for Bade East and Hon. Sanda Kara Bade for Bade West. I urge you to vote them in with a wide margin. Let us vote for them. Let us vote APC from top to bottom and from bottom to top. We are very hopeful that we will make APC to succeed during the forthcoming elections. We plead with all and sundry to vote APC.” But the PDP is also back on the campaign trail, talking to the people and urging them to continue their solidarity with the party and vote for the party’s governorship candidate on Saturday. The party is also urging support for its House of Assembly candidates across the state. It is left to be seen whether the people of Yobe state will stick to the ruling APC by reelecting Governor Buni on Saturday or they will continue their new found romance with the PDP by voting out the incumbent.