The importance of marketing and the 4Ps of marketing to succeed in challenging times formed the plank of a digital conference in Lagos recently. The conference, organized by Temple Digital Marketing focused on the theme: Navigating Digital Marketing in an economic Downturn. The event was attended by over 150 digital marketing professionals, leading thinkers, and digital industry experts who shared their insights and experiences on marketing during difficult economic times. Molade Orioye, Head of Business and Strategy, Melange Ltd, emphasized the importance of marketing and the 4 Ps of Marketing to succeed in challenging times. They also highlighted the significance of investing in thoughtful content, prioritizing search engine optimization, and using listening tools to understand what customers are saying. Amechi Koldsweat, the Experiential Marketing Lead for Moniepoint INC  spoke on the importance of influencer marketing and choosing the right influencer for the target audience and brand. This type of marketing is particularly effective in industries targeting young consumers, such as video games and beauty. Kelechi Anyikude, Growth Marketing Manager for Earnipay said that businesses should not be tempted to cut their marketing budgets during hard times. Instead, businesses should invest in targeted and value-based marketing campaigns to drive growth. This can be achieved through thoughtful content, search engine optimization, and the use of real-time feedback and listening tools to understand what customers are saying. Chioma Ogbudimkpa, a Start-up Pitch Expert said in addition, influencer marketing was highlighted as an effective form of advertising, particularly for reaching younger audiences such as Gen Z. By choosing the right influencer for the target audience and brand, businesses can improve the reliability and influence of their marketing campaigns. The conference also discussed the potential benefits of increasing marketing spending during economic downturns. Targeted and value-based marketing campaigns, analyzing past and current metrics, and providing meaningful content can help companies make significant gains during difficult times. The event concluded with the organizers expressing gratitude to the speakers and participants for their contributions and engagement, which will help impact post-COVID digital marketing in Nigeria in the best possible way. Overall, the Temple digital marketing conference provided valuable insights into the changing digital marketing landscape in Nigeria and the opportunities that businesses can leverage to succeed in an uncertain economic climate.