The Supreme Court has upheld the nomination of Dr Dauda Lawal-Dare as the governorship candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Zamfara State for the March 11 governorship election. In a unanimous judgment on Monday, a five-member panel of the court dismissed the appeal marked: SC/CV/92/2023 brought by another governorship aspirant, Dr Ibrahim Sheu Gusau. Justice Adamu Jauro, in the lead judgment, agreed with Lawal-Dare’s lawyer, Damian Dodo (SAN) his client was the authentic candidate of the PDP. Justice Jauro, who held that the appeal was without merit, proceeded to dismiss it. The judge upheld the judgment of the Court of Appeal, which had on January 6, this year endorsed the second primary election that produced the candidate. Lawal-Dare had in the primary election polled 442 votes to emerge victorious over Dr Ibrahim Sheu Gusau and other aspirants. Justice Jauro held that a Federal High Court in Gusau which nullified the primary elections twice had no jurisdiction at the time it adjudicated upon the suit instituted by Dr Gusau. The Court of Appeal Sokoto Division on June 6 upheld the primary election which produced Dr. Dauda Lawal-Dare as the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the March 11, 2023, governorship election in Zamfara State. The first PDP governorship primary election held on May 25, 2022 was challenged at a Federal High Court in Gusau and nullified. The High Court, in its judgment, ordered a fresh primary election which was conducted on September 23, 2022 but was also quashed by the same court for irregularities. Not satisfied with the High Court decision, Dauda Lawal-Dare, Adamu Maina-Waziri, the Chairman Primary Election Committee; and retired Col. Bala Mande approached the Appeal Court for redress. Respondents in the appeal were Dr. Ibrahim Shehu-Gusau, Alhaji Wadatau Madawaki, Hafiz Nahuche and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). In a unanimous judgment read by Justice Abubakar Talba on behalf of others, the Court of Appeal held that the Appellants succeeded to prove all the seven grounds of appeal canvassed by their counsel and that the court resolved all in their favour. Justice Talba dismissed all the preliminary objections on the competency of the appeal on the basis of judicial provisions and the interest of fair hearing, saying that technical defaults could not supersede judicial provisions. Justice Talba held that the high court Judge was wrong to discountenance documents submitted by INEC and that the trial court did not stipulate the period for conducting a re-run election and notices of participation.