The Dangote Integrated Refinery and Petrochemical Company – with an installed capacity of 650,000 barrels per day (bpd) – which is expected to come on stream in the year will afford Nigeria and other African countries the partnership opportunities for sourcing petroleum products and fertiliser. Furthermore, the recently inaugurated Lekki Free Zone and facilities like the SHI-MCI FPSO Fabrication/Integration in Lagos present opportunities for collaboration for the construction of FPSO and other offshore oil and gas facilities. The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Mr. Simbi Wabote, stated at a recent oil and gas conference in Lagos. Wabote, an engineer, said these infrastructure and others that exist in various parts of the African continent provide massive opportunities for cross-border energy collaboration among African countries. He also said the West Africa Gas Pipeline (WAGP) and the ongoing AKK gas transmission infrastructure provide a means for serving regional and African markets.  Wabote, who spoke on the theme: “Sub-Saharan Africa Local Content Collaboration Strategy”, noted the strategies to start from a cluster within a country and grow organically across borders continue to work well in the provision of roads, gas pipelines, fibre-optic cables, railways, and other infrastructure across the continent.  According to him, the oil and gas industrial parks being developed across the seven locations in the country represent one of the ways the country is providing infrastructure for the manufacturing of components to serve local and regional markets in a collaborative way, adding that Nigeria is on track to complete major construction at the sites by end of the year. “The government will collaborate on legal framework, funding, infrastructure, human capacity development, and research and development to drive the initiative. He said the government is exploring ways to break down barriers, promote cross-border collaboration, among governments and businesses, and provide peer review mechanisms, and share experiences and ideas on industry sustainability and growth,’’ he said.  The Executive Secretary added that creating an enabling legal or regulatory framework was essential to drive and develop local content sustainability, and that such a framework would also be required to forge a collaborative Africa local content strategy. According to him, the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) is one critical legal framework that could be leveraged to achieve the collaborative local content strategy in Africa. The AfCFTA is the practice of local content on the continental level and it was adopted by the League of African Leaders in 2012 at the 18th Ordinary Session of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the African Union (AU) in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.  Wabote said the advent of AfCFTA created the world’s largest free trade area by integrating 1.3 billion people across 54 African countries, with the objective of tapping into a combined Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of over $3 trillion. “This is indeed a very huge collaboration platform that will present tremendous gains to the entire African continent. “It is in recognition of the enormous opportunities that AfCFTA presents that Nigeria has started working towards unleashing the collaboration potential. The government will ensure that the National Action Committee on the AfCFTA effectively coordinates relevant stakeholders toward the attainment of Nigeria’s strategic national interest,” he stated, adding that it’s a proactive step in the right direction.  He said investment in infrastructure has a significant impact on the economic growth of any nation. According to him, a study carried out in the year 2020 by GI Hub found that the economic multiplier for public investment (including infrastructure) is one and a half times greater than the initial investment in two to five years, adding this is much higher than other forms of public spending.  The executive secretary said funding is another area of collaboration which is critical for executing major oil and gas projects. The NCDMB promoted the need for African countries to come together and create an Africa Local Content Bank that would support it in its energy development quest during the African Local Content Roundtable held in June 2021 in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State.  Wabote informed the African Petroleum Producers Organization (APPO) has welcomed the suggestion and they have since taken it on board much to delight. APPO has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the African Export–Import Bank (Afreximbank) for the creation of an Africa Energy Bank to address the financing challenges of oil and gas projects caused by the paradigm shift from fossil energy to renewable energies in the era of the Energy Transition during the 8th African Petroleum Congress and Exhibition (CAPE VIII) held in Luanda, Angola.  He disclosed NCDMB is currently supporting APPO on how to make the funds available adding when operational, the Africa Energy Bank will foster the development of major energy projects across Africa.