The Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) has emphasised the need for operators in the  downstream sector to ensure automation of their services.  This, they maintained, would help the operators on data generation, improve product delivery storage utilisation and profitability. Its Executive Secretary, Clement Isong, at a virtual workshop on World International Data Day, said data on products demand on refined fuels and lubricants could streamline operations, improve product delivery, storage utilisation, among others.  Besides, the automation, he said, will also ensure transparency, excellent customer service, eliminate fraud, corruption and boost the reputation of the industry. “Our position in MOMAN is that we are looking for the automation of the entire supply chain. It means everybody needs to invest in order to optimise their businesses. Eventually, the beneficiary is the customer. It is good for corporate governance. It removes people’s ability to steal,” he said. Imploring the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) to invest in infrastructure for data gathering, Isong contended that this will enable the Authority to do a preliminary analysis of that data; put up the information on its website, which investors, marketers, operators and everybody can access. “On that basis, it helps in optimising the business and make investment decisions. It is fundamental to a deregulated system. It improves the quality of decision-making as well as transparency and eliminates bad behaviours as well as fraud and theft,” he added. In similar vein, a political analyst, Ikponmwosa Aikhionbare, in his presentation, disclosed that Ghana launched the Bulk Road Vehicle Tracking System (BRVTS) to track the movement of petroleum products from depots to retail outlets.  “The system uses GPS technology to monitor the location, speed and fuel consumption of trucks transporting petroleum products. In India, the government has implemented a system called the Automated System for Oil Movement and Storage (ASOMS), which tracks the movement of petroleum products through the supply chain.