Stakeholders in the energy sector have proffered decentralisation and advocacy for renewable solutions as a progressive step toward ending energy poverty in Nigeria. This was the consensus at the Clean Energy Session #CES2023 hosted by Black Voice Media in collaboration with Africa Nxt Conference. Guided by the theme: “Bridging the energy gap in Unserved and Under-served communities in Nigeria,’’ the session featured conversations on clean energy as crucial in the drive to provide alternative energy. Moderated by Collins Teke, Broadcast media veteran and Founder of Black Voice Media, it also initiated more awareness about clean energy solutions while tackling energy poverty and climate change. CEO Energy Investment company -All On Caroline Eboumbou stated the current energy supply gap in Nigeria is at least 180,000 MW with the country barely generating 5000MW. She said due to this supply gap, 49 percent of Nigerians have no access to power supply, creating hindrances to opportunities from renewable energy. She called for more collaboration among stakeholders to improve energy distribution. Addressing the misconceptions about Solar energy, Damilola Asaleye, Vice President, Renewable Energy Association of Nigeria (REAN) and co-founder Ashdam Solar, stated that Renewable energy should be embraced more because it is cheaper compared to other energy sources thereby providing more chances for an efficient energy supply. Read Also : Case for investments in renewable energy Founder, D’SUON Energy Chukwuebuka Obimma stated that energy poverty cannot be solved without addressing the needs of rural communities because they remain a vital component of industrialisation while Charles Ubong Akpan, COO of Salpha Energy noted that convincing Nigerians to switch to solar Energy has been a major challenge for energy solutions companies calling for more sensitisation. Panelists agreed on the need for more decentralisation of renewable energy solutions and advocacy at the grassroots to aid the drive to end energy poverty in Nigeria. Commenting on the potential outcome of the session, Founder of Black Voice Media Collins Teke said: ‘‘The discourse is meant to enhance a shift in vulnerable communities and improve livelihood. The transition of energy renewables has the potential to improve Africa’s growth hence the need for individuals and institutions to stay committed to achieving the Social Development Goal of providing access to affordable and sustainable energy. ‘’With efficiency between the public and private sector, alternative energy will become more accessible creating a means for job creation, clean fuel reducing poverty while being a potential for national development ’’.