By Gbenga Bada The seventh Saturday night party was filled with an aura of energy with the room fully charged for fun, dance and alcohol. The exit of the ex-housemates was noticeable with the room looking bigger with just 16 housemates. Here are some titbits from the energetic seventh Saturday night party: DJ Toy performed commendably Give it to the Disc Jockey for the Seventh Saturday Night Party, DJ Toy, he gave a commendable service while behind his turntables. DJ Toy matched the energy in the party room with songs that got the 16 remaining housemates dancing for the better part of the three hour party. From top Nigerian songs to South African’s biggest tracks, DJ Toy perfectly meddled between both country genres to give a perfect blend for the party. The Kanaiva moves Probably to entertain or distinguish their pair from other pairs on the BBTitans show, the pair of Kanaiva, made up of Kanaga Jr and Blue Aiva, serenaded the housemates and viewers with the unusual Kanaiva dance moves. The pair held other housemates spellbound for almost three minutes as they entertained with their well choreographed dance moves. The Blaqleng pair also tried following suit but Ipaleng was not as keen as BlaqBoi. Energy Gads A number of the housemates seemed to have forgotten that the Sunday live eviction show was barely 18 hours away after enjoying immunity in week six. They danced away their sorrows and ensured they had the best time of their life at the seventh Saturday Night Party. Read Also: BBTitans: Yemi Cregx gets cosy with Khosi Topping the list of Energy gads at the party were Miracle Op, Kanaga Jr, BlaqBoi, Ebubu, Yemi Cregx and interestingly, Nelisa. Their energy was out of the world and they had fun pacing round the party room while dancing and sharing drinks. Yemi Cregx couldn’t take hands off Khosi One time Head of House, Yemi Cregx couldn’t stop expressing Public Display of Affection towards Khosi at the seventh Saturday Night Party. His hands were all around Khosi and didn’t allow Khosi leave her sight. Times she was rubbing Khosi’s backside, hair of face, he was pacing and dancing round the party room with his energy-filled mates. Ipeleng loosen up For the seventh Saturday Night party in the house, Ipeleng gave some of the best highlights. She came out of her shell to dance, whine and dine – even though she preferred to stay safe with her bottle of Pepsi all through the three hour party. She joined the go-round dance, engaged in some funny dance steps and even danced with her partner, BlaqBoi and Miracle OP at different times during the party. On Blue Aiva and Nelisa’s scandalous outfits Viewers and fans of the BBTitans show couldn’t take their eyes off Blue Aiva and Nelisa all through the show. Like siamese twins, the two were bound looking scantily dressed to the admiration of many males thet drooled over them. While Nelisa’s bum short was too short to be called one, Blue Aiva literally wore a black short leather skirt that made no effort covering her bum. The wiggled and jiggled their bum at every opportunity while the camera focused on them aside other housemates. As if that wasn’t enough, Nelisa’s top left little or nothing to imagine of her boobs while Blue Aiva’s net top gave out the tattoos on her cleavage, mid riff and other parts of her body. Nana was not left out of this geng but she was more of a short dress than being scantily dressed. When Nana blew Justin’s mind away  Not many viewers got the scene – which was brief – but one of the interesting moments of the night was when DJ Toy played Ajimovoix drums’ ‘Focus.’ Nana couldn’t hold herself as she dived into the song wriggling her waist and twerking persistently for Justin, who was enjoying every bit of the brief moment. The moment was one of the highlights of Nana’s activities at the party despite being glued to the mirror in the party room. Yvonne, Olivia and Blue Aiva’s bum challenge Three female housemates, who left viewers asking for more during the seventh Saturday night party are Yvonne, Olivia and Blue Aiva, who practically couldn’t help shaking their voluptuous bum at every given opportunity. The three housemates, who were occassionally joined by Nelisa and Nana in the fun, literally had a bum challenge as they twerked and wiggled their tail feathers to the delight of male viewers and some female fans of the show.