Like every event in a nation’s history, the first  phase of the 2023 general elections came  and did witness  Nigerians trooping out to vote for their preferred candidate who was to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari as the nation’s substantive president for the next four years. Prior to this period, a number of persons who had been lucky to nick the presidential tickets of their political parties had begun to traverse the country seeking to share their narratives of how best they felt they would govern the nation should they be voted in. Another category saw other candidates both old and new, experienced and newbies vie to fill up the 469 seats in the nation’s bicameral legislature. Dday came and the elections true to the predictions of a number of political panjandrum, ( Not those tainted by sentiments and what I call by his spirit polling) saw a former two time Governor and National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC win the elections with 8, 794,726 votes as against his closest rival Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the  Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and Peter Obi of the Labour Party, LP who scored 6,984, 520 and 6,101,533 respectively. The electoral process as a whole , inclusive of the final results did leave different shades of taste in the mouths of millions of Nigerians who had immersed themselves with the electoral  process with a determination to vote a  candidate in tandem with their shared ideals. First of all the elections were  since 2015 the most keenly contested election in the nation’s electoral history, since its return to democratic rule. It should also be noted that since 1979 and 1983 general elections, Nigerians had not until the recently held polls witnessed a plethora of choices, that is in terms of numbers of parties or candidates vying for the office of President.  Nigerians moved from the regular recurring two horse race  to what I can perhaps call a four horse race which helped raise the stakes. Despite this, I still agree with the general consensus that the quality of campaigns, particularly those of the presidential candidates were quite below standards. The campaign on issues in this election took the back seat while Nigerians were left with the campaigns that for much of its time dwelt on personality attacks and the crude deployment of ethnic propaganda, most especially on social media. Religion was also a rallying banner in the polls, for while the Muslim/Muslim ticket of the APC was bound  to unsettle a number of people, majorly Christians, prevailing electoral realities could not  avail the President Elect to do otherwise. This however to his opponents was like a shark smelling blood in the sea and trust politicians they very much capitalized on it. Religion played a big role in this election and examples abound. We saw pastors and Christian clerics mount the podium to say vile things against a particular candidate while they carried out the beatification of another. Some took it a notch further by openly prophesying that a particular candidate would win, one now then wonders which God have these psychedelic pastors and clerics been calling upon. In the SouthEast, priests took it upon themselves to announce that any of their faithfuls who dared vote for any other candidate aside theirs would not receive certain sacramental privileges! Ethnicity and tribalism were also on the front burners as each of the four leading candidates despite their avowed pretensions to been nationalists all sort to play the ethnic card. This is the very reason why each save Rabiu Kwakwanso did so well in their respective regions. Even Obi’s surprise victories in Lagos ,Nasarawa and Plateau  alongside his strong showing in a number of other states can be tied to the huge population of Igbos living in these areas. One would have thought that the twin evils of thuggery and violence would have been relics of past elections , but from what was experienced that day, it is still a sore wound in our attempts to provide free and fair elections and thus needs to be surgically handled in subsequent elections. Visuals of  thugs manhandling people based on party interest should have been a thing confined to the First, Second and during the Obasanjo era of our experiment with democracy. Other issues such as that of logistics also gave INEC’s preparedness for the 2023 election a black eye somewhat. In a number of areas such a situation denied voters the opportunity to cast their votes at the appropriate time given by INEC, a number of voters had to wait long into the morning to cast their votes, in a number of situations neither voting materials nor electoral officials arrived at their polling units, thus disenfranchising millions of Nigerians. In a number of polling units where materials and electoral officials were present, there were issues of missing,non functional and wrongly assigned BIVAS machines , if this was not the case then perhaps the ballot papers assigned to the polling units were not adequate. All said,  the 2023 elections were a logistical nightmare. However, despite the challenges faced in the course of conducting the election, the process itself could be said to have met the standards for electioneering, particularly in this part of the world. So far, so good, the results collated are indeed a reflection of the will of the average Nigerian. A situation where the ruling party lost key traditional stronghold states to the opposition including Lagos, Kaduna, Kebbi, Plateau, Gombe, Kastina, Nasarawa and Bauchi  cannot be said to have been rigged .