A man, Ikechukwu Obiora who allegedly strangled his wife, Ebere to death in Ezi-Ogwugwu, Otolo Nnewi in Nnewi North Local Government Area of Anambra State has explained reasons behind the act. Obiora, who is in police custody, blamed the action on domestic violence. He admitted to the crime after he was summoned by his in-laws who are still in shock over the unfortunate incident. In his confessional statement, Obiora said, “I returned home in the morning of March 2, 2023, and was knocking at the gate, but my wife did not open immediately. “In that anger, I started shouting at her. I first slapped and hit her from the gate to the house before angrily grabbing her on the neck and strangling her to death. “I couldn’t believe what happened because I never expected that such actions would lead to her death. “I eventually abandoned the corpse and left out of fear and confusion, after confiding in few persons who I sought advice on what to do. “It was later in the evening that my mother reached out to my wife’s family members.” The Nation gathered that the couple who got married last year August, were expecting their first baby before the incident.  A source close to the family, said the couple had, unknown to the wife’s family, been enmeshed in periodic domestic violence and family issues. According to the source, the deceased family, Nathaniel Uzuegbunam of Obiuno community in Otolo Nnewi had wondered why the culprit was not sighted throughout the entire incident, as well as why the mother had to break the sad news to them. The source said, “At about 7pm on Thursday, March 2, 2023, the deceased family received a call from the husband’s mother, informing them that their daughter had just slumped and appeared to be dead.  “As soon as they made their way to their in-law’s residence at Ezi-Ogwugwu, they were informed that their daughter had been rushed to the Nnewi Diocesan Hospital at Akwudo. “At the hospital, the doctor on duty informed them that their daughter was dead after examining her body.  The source further added that the deceased family members had to take the body to another hospital, St. Felix Okolo Hospital, Nnewi, where it was also confirmed dead by the doctor before it was eventually deposited at the morgue. Police spokesperson, Tochukwu Ikenga could not confirm the incident when contacted but a senior police officer at the Command said the suspect would be charged after investigations were concluded.