Google on Wednesday celebrated International Women’s Day IWD, by announcing three new initiatives aimed at empowering women entrepreneurs in Africa and providing them with the resources they need to succeed. The initiatives include the Google for Startups Accelerator Africa: Women Founders Cohort, the Hustle Academy for Women-Led SMEs, and a social media series celebrating inspiring women in Africa’s technology sector. Folarin Aiayegbusi, Head of Startup Ecosystem, Africa, said, “We are thrilled to announce the selected startups for the inaugural class of our Google for Startups Accelerator Africa: Women Founders Cohort. These women are tackling some of Africa’s most pressing challenges, and we’re excited to support them as they build the future.” The 15 startups selected for the program are from eight African countries and are creating innovative solutions that improve livelihoods in their communities. Google’s Hustle Academy is a boot camp-style training program designed to help entrepreneurs increase revenue, position themselves for investment, and build sustainable businesses for the future. As part of its International Women’s Day celebrations, Google plans to host six women-focused cohorts of the Hustle Academy program in Kenya, Nigeria, and South Africa throughout the month of March. Women entrepreneurs in these countries are invited to apply to join these cohorts at g.co/hustleacademy. Finally, Google is celebrating inspiring women in Africa’s technology sector through its #WomeninIT social media series. The series features the stories of six inspiring women who are breaking barriers and making an impact in the fields of technology, business, entrepreneurship, innovation, and startups on the continent. Read Also: Google opens applications for Black Startups in Africa, Europe According to Dorothy Ooko, Head of Communications, Google Africa, “At Google, we are committed to providing women entrepreneurs in Africa with access to funding, mentorship, and networking opportunities. Through our programs, we aim to bridge the gap and empower women to succeed in their respective fields.” The Google for Startups Accelerator Africa Women Founders Cohort (in alphabetical order) · Afriwell Health (Congo) · Alajo App (Nigeria) · eWaka (Kenya) · Farmer Lifeline (Kenya) · Maxibuy (Nigeria) · MosMos (Kenya) · Gobeba (Kenya) · Hepta Pay (Rwanda) · Jem HR (South Africa) · Kola Market (Ghana) · Mipango (Tanzania) · Smart Ikigega (Rwanda) · Suitch (Cameroon) · Tyms Africa (Nigeria) · Zydii (Kenya)