History may absolve our youths of righteous rage, perhaps. Many of them, mostly youngsters between their late teens to mid-30s have barged into the political space with neither an appreciation nor a sense of history. Their political participation is borne of biased personal experiences and dubious indoctrination by parents and social media propagandists. Yet it must be said that what they have seen and felt is enough to incite their cynicism and virulent turn. Nigeria wilts from misgovernance, policy failure, unemployment, inflation, nepotism, and insecurity. Amid all these, the youths accuse the aging leadership of holding tenaciously to power, never letting go; and that when they do let go, they reinsert themselves via stooges, their children, and pledged associates. Disgruntled by the status quo, Nigeria’s youths seek a messiah. So, they may flirt with strife and call it revolt, just as a swarm of mosquitoes can make a noise like thunder. It gets scarier when their ignorance, intemperance, and rage enjoy the caress of a dubious demagogue. They launch like loose canons at the slightest provocation. Nigeria should flinch. Every political herd thrives on the cult of self hence its affliction by tyranny and murderous demeanor. Like I said in my previous piece, this cult of self could be our greatest undoing – if not checked immediately. Already, its manifestations are rife. It is the misguided belief that one is always right and that everyone else got it wrong; it is the conviction that homicidal bias and personal interest, mistaken for individualism, are the same as patriotism and democratic rights. In fact, homicidal bias, discernible in the distaste for others’ views, has become the highlight of perverse citizenship and inclination to stifle others across Nigeria’s political circuits. The cult of self drives mob tyrants to impose their vanities on others. It enhances their threats to unleash death and mayhem on supporters of any other political aspirant aside from their preferred candidate. Violence and angst, a sense of victimhood and monopoly of protest, become their justification for threatening and inflicting chaos on anyone whose opinion challenges theirs. It is this perverse culture, accentuated by material impoverishment and poverty of the mind that birthed us terrorism, armed banditry, and the highly lucrative kidnap for ransom sub-economy. The cult of self afflicted us with the triggers of these monstrosities, that is, the soulless leadership and business class who mindlessly looted the nation’s treasury trashed the economy, and masterminded nationwide mayhem in furtherance of their selfish interests. There is little difference between the cyber-terrorists running our political space amok, and the bloodthirsty hordes of Boko Haram or the armed bandits quietly laying siege to our hitherto peaceful communities. The war up north has finally found its way to our doorsteps down south. We can no longer embrace aloofness as our armour against the fierce winds of chaos. The fragile peace of the south that we once coveted and celebrated with a smirk was, after all, an illusion. It diminishes the pervasive terror of the political mob. Just recently, one of the leaders of an All Progressives Congress (APC) campaign group, the Coalition of South-East Tinubu Shettima Support Group (CoSETSSG), in Anambra State, Leo Alachuna, was killed by unknown gunmen, for jubilating in Onitsha after Bola Tinubu was declared the winner of the presidential election last Wednesday. A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Lagos State, and the Special Adviser for Drainage and Water Resources to Lagos State Governor, Joe Igbokwe made this known on his social media handles on Tuesday. Alachuna’s murder occurs in the wake of tension triggered by tribal politicking in Lagos, en route to the March 11 gubernatorial polls. And how have we responded to this looming apocalypse? By gaslighting it and immersing in morbid rites of escape, like the cult worship of political idols and their totems of dubious rhetoric. “The professional celebrity, male and female, is the crowning result of the star system of a society that makes a fetish of competition,” avers Wright Mills. In Nigeria, political celebrity, among others, is the major beneficiary of our dysfunctional social complex. Yet millions of Nigerians embrace ignorance even as the toxic underbelly of their political celebrities cum the oligarchic enterprise is hurled in our faces; just recently, a viral video of two new governor-elects of rival political parties doing a celebratory dance in a shared private jet made the rounds. It was apparent that the duo shared a tight bond immune to the ravage of acrimony and toxic partisanship pervasive in their neighbouring political spaces. Reality asserts the political class’ clinical approach to politics and their commitment to it as a game, where you either win or lose – only to retreat, realign and try another day. Little wonder that supposedly sworn political enemies have been seen to unite by their children’s marriage or betrothal to each other’s daughters. Outside the circuits of their gated commune, however, ignorant electorate clash and bawl, maim, and kill each other in a manic fit to further the interests of their respective political messiah. This malady is borne to the point where a man who couldn’t muster a convincing explanation of his ambition to lead, let alone a visionary manifesto, is maliciously shoved to our consciousness as the best President Nigeria could ever have. On the flip side, however, the teachers responsible for furnishing Nigeria with all manners of genii, visionaries, technocrats, sports champions, and nation builders, and the security operatives responsible for protecting our lives and property, are treated with disdain by the citizenry and the state. The policemen, soldiers, and the press, who are burdened with the task of protecting us from the worst from abroad and among us, are persistently humiliated and tortured by the Nigerian collective. The institutionalised degradation of our teachers, security operatives, and the press offers public spectacle until their humiliation and debasement hit too close to home and our comfort zones. Protracted strike by Nigerian universities has been known to render several youths frustrated. Lest we forget the humiliation and debasement of the striking lecturers, death threats to journalists amid institutionalised harassment of the press; and the disdainful treatment of the nation’s armed forces equally hit too close to home. Recent intelligence reports suggest that the federal seat of power in Aso Rock, Abuja, and Lagos State among others, were on the radar of some persons planning terror attacks across the country and the widespread apprehension of the citizenry and political class are instructive. At this crucial period, who are those we look to for solace and security? Is it our celebrity politician, reality show vixen, pornstar, sports star, actress, musician, or social influencer? Who are those we look to for direction and reassurance that all would be well? From whom do we extract a promise that we would be safe? Is it the menacing herd prowling social media and public space, hurling invectives and death threats at anyone with differing political views? Is it the virulent horde wishing anarchy on Nigeria at home and abroad? The chaos of naira scarcity and decline, the looming food crisis, and the threat of cyber-bullies rarely prick the illusions that warp our consciousness like the incumbent threat of nationwide terror attacks. To deal with the latter, we look to the media and armed forces. This is quite instructive.