The Christian Association of Nigeria, (CAN) Lagos State Chapter has endorsed the candidacy of the incumbent Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat for a second term. The CAN Chairman, Lagos State, Bishop Stephen Adegbite announced this on Tuesday at a press briefing held at the Chapel of Light, Alausa, Lagos. The event had the five blocks of CAN represented.  Adegbite said that it is important to make it abundantly clear that the Christian community in Lagos, led by leaders including himself, demanded a Christian governor, and by divine providence and the listening ears of party leaders, the present governor emerged. He added that the current endorsement is based primarily on one thing; performance and nothing else. He said: “Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s achievement in the critical sectors of the economy of the state is endearing, and we are convinced that it needs to be sustained. “The recently completed multibillion naira lmota Rice Mill project, foreign direct investment coming through the Lekki Free Trade Zone, the recently completed first phase of the Lagos Rail Mass Transit (LRMT) Blue Line and the commencement of the second phase which is the Red Line, the repositioning of the health sector through the building of more health centres at the grassroots, a free health policy for children below 18 years and adults above 65 years of age not minding your ethnic background or religious affiliation are just a few of the things we have seen and consistency is what we need. “These, amongst others, are projects, programmes and policies capable of creating employment for our teeming youths and help in strengthening our economic fortunes.” Adegbite added: “We would like to place on record that in no way are we against any candidate by this endorsement. Our blessings are certainly with all of them. But as a people guided by an objective sense of history on how we got to where we are, and based on what we have seen and experienced, so far, we are putting our trust in Governor Sanwo-Olu who has done extremely well the first time around is the safest and right thing to do.” The cleric further noted that Christian and Muslim communities in Lagos have enjoyed amity and peaceful coexistence due largely to a flawless and well-nurtured structure built over time, which is part of the intentional and purposeful leadership provided by the government of Lagos which bears eloquent testimony to his record of performance.