A former Commissioner for Agriculture in Ekiti State Dr. Bode Adetoyi has urged the President-Elect Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to address the problems bedeviling the agricultural sector in the country. Adetoyi told reporters Issues of mechanisation need to be addressed as Nigeria has just 7,000 tractors as against the required 2.5 million tractors. The former Commissioner explained that most farmers at this age still believe in the use of the crude implements while there are less machines to enhance mechanisation within the country. The agricultural Expert said poor variety of seeds and seedlings / yield gap is another issue as farmers need to make use of the high yielding varieties of crop to enhance production and maximize profits. Adetoyi stated that nearly all the States scarcely have agricultural extension agents, noting that their significance cannot be overlooked as they play advisory roles to farmers, update farmers on new technologies, introducing high yielding varieties of crops and training of farmers on best practice for the sector. Adetoyi also identified absence of storage / processing facilities as a bane of agricultural development. He explained that post-harvest losses today of farm produce is at over 65 percent, stating there must be massive investment in processing and storage facilities so farmers can get value for their money. He advocated removal of land use act of 1978 because the system does not make land available for investors, noting that Nigeria has 33 million hectares of arable land. A large expanse, he said, is not available for commercial purpose, forcing farmers and investors go through harrowing experience on land acquisition. The Chairman and founder of Value Ingredients Ltd Lagos with a branch in Ado Ekiti, was Director, Fountain Holdings Ltd (an investment arm of Ekiti State. As Commissioner, he made footprints that were largely indelible, including engagement of youths in agribusiness {Training of over 300 youths through YEASA, IITA, IFAD, AFRICARISE, ABUAD}, Engagement on Development Strategy for Agro Cargo Airport, built and support Ease of Doing Business, wrote a new Agric. Policy Development for Ekiti State, Establishment of clonal gardens for seedlings so that farmers an have access to new and improved varieties of Cocoa, Oil Palm, Cashew etc.,