The Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) yesterday lauded the victory of President-elect Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The nation’s umbrella Muslim organisation said it could testify to Tinubu’s track records in public service and decades of hard work. In a statement yesterday in Abuja by its Deputy Secretary-General, Prof. Salisu Shehu, it urged the President-elect to raise an all-inclusive team.  The statement said: “The Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) under the leadership of its President-General and Sultan of Sokoto, His Eminence, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III, CFR, mni, on behalf of the entire Muslim Ummah (community) in Nigeria, heartily congratulates you, on your resounding victory during the Presidential election and emergence as the President-elect. “The council is also very grateful to Almighty Allah for the victory, which is a clear manifestation of His immense favours on you and His preference that you lead our great people and nation at this point in time. Alhamdulillah! (Glory be Allah).” The NSCIA urged the President-elect to implement a large-scale transformation of the country when he is inaugurated. The statement added: “Your victory did not actually come to us in the Council as a surprise. We have followed with keen interest your trajectory in the Nigerian political landscape. “We can attest to your track records in public service, your decades of hard work, selflessness, sacrifice, unflagging commitment and dedication to the Nigerian project as well as the excellent interpersonal relationships that you have built across the country over the years.      “In addition, Your Excellency, you are a very experienced human and financial resources manager, a hunter of talents and an enabler of men and women. You are sui generis (in a class of your own) among your peers in the encouragement that you constantly give to the Nigerian youths to offer their best in the service of our country. “Consequently, the Council is confident that you would bring to bear your wealth of experience in assembling an all-inclusive team of experts in the administration of our country in a way that would foster unity and peace as well as engender sustainable development that we all crave. “Justice is considered as the hallmark of leadership and a non-negotiable requirement of Islam.” “We urge you, upon assumption of office, to put in place policies and measures that would lead to the large-scale transformation of our country’s economy, security, social infrastructure, and human capital development.” The council also asked Tinubu to be truthful, honest, fair, transparent, and disciplined. The NSCIA added: “We would like to remind you that as a Muslim in a position of authority, leadership is trust, and a lot will also be expected from and demanded of you by the people of this great country.  “We, therefore, urge Your Excellency to continue to be good, truthful, honest, fair, transparent, disciplined, prayerful and righteous in the discharge of the duties Allah has entrusted to you because every opportunity is for an appointed term. You can always count on the support and prayers of the NSCIA in this respect. “We pray that the Almighty Allah bless you abundantly and grant you success so that your tenure shall be a reference point in the annals of leadership in this country. “We also beseech Him to guide, guard and grant you the wisdom and strength to discharge your duties creditably so as to showcase and enhance the image of Islam by your exemplary conduct and performance. “The council requests that you reflect on the above-quoted verses of the Glorious Qur’an as they are relevant to the current situation. Indeed, in the cited verses are messages for you to ponder upon. “While thanking the Almighty Allah for His grace in your life and fervently praying for your success in this exalted position, please accept the assurances of the Council’s highest regards.”