The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has promised to fight casualisation to a stand still. However, it assured workers of better welfare, considering the  challenges in the country. Speaking during his visit to the National Union of Chemical, Footwear, Rubber, Leather and Non-Metallic Products Employees (NUCFRLANMPE) and other unions in Lagos,  NLC President, Joe Ajaero, said the congress would fight casualisation, outsourcing or any other policy  that is undermining the welfare of workers. Just as he pledged to take the welfare of workers seriously. Ajaero said trade unionism is gradually facing extinction as a result of causalisation, out-sourcing, hence NLC would fight to ensure that the issue of casualisation is reduced to the barest minimum, if not eliminated He lamented that workers have been reduced to slaves through contract and casual employment. According to him, some workers earn as little as N15,000 with no conditions of service, medicare and pension. “All these things, we are going to face squarely. Most employers don’t allow workers to belong to unions. It is only when you belong to a union that your interest and welfare will be catered for. All those issues will be tackled. “Some of the unions are at the point of extinction because of workplace tyranny. We have to put a stop to it. If we do that and empower the unions, make them strong and vibrant, then they will be in a position to serve their members. “Note that whatever is affecting the Nigerian worker is also affecting the NLC. This is a burden that the NLC must carry. “Then the issue of minimum wage, the pay that cannot take you home. When you compare the minimum wage with the cost of living, it cannot balance up. So, these are some of the issues that we will have to contend with as a movement,” he said. Ajaero said that the congress is also ready to fight anti-labour governors for neglecting their welfare. “This is not an era that any governor will insult us. Any governor or anybody that wants to punish workers should be ready for war because we will not allow it. We are out for serious business. All inhuman working conditions or anti-labour activities, most especially from the governors, will no longer be acceptable. “Many organisations have been destroyed as a result of anti-labour policies. Workers are always at the receiving end. Workers create wealth and it time for us to also enjoy the wealth. Ajaero said the congress is ready to engage incoming government. He said the workers are ready to be involve in the governance . ” We will engage any government to come up and the era of sitting down and be looking is over.  No time for patience or laziness again. We are ready to take out rightful place and that is why we are going to engage which ever government that takes over. Ajaero,  who vowed not fail workers and people, said the leadership of the congress would seek platforms to lift them from the shackles of poverty. “We will not betray that trust! We are committed to pursuing the interests and desire of workers and, by extension, the majority of the masses. “We, therefore, pledge our loyalty to the NLC, workers, the masses and Nigeria. Our thoughts and our actions shall be propelled by this avowal,” Ajaero said. Earlier, the President of NUCFRLANMPE, Comrade Goke Olatunji, lamented that anti-workers practices such as casualisation, contract staffing were the major challenges facing the sector. He said these had affected the sector negatively. He also said the various government policies had caused havoc in the sector Olatunji said: “Without sounding immodest, the economic situation in Nigeria is not business-friendly. The instability occasioned by either lack of economic policy framework or unclear economic policy direction and or ineffective implementation of the economic policies is having their tolls on the manufacturing sector of our dear nation. “It is imperative to discuss and understand the state of Nigeria’s economy and come up with adequate approach to cope with the resultant effects. These effects are evident in the evolution of strange practices in industrial relations like casualisation, contract-staffing, outsourcing, indiscriminate restructuring, and redundancy. Meanwhile, The Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria(PENGASSAN) has pledged to curb casualisation in the oil and gas industry. Its President, Comrade  Festus Osifo, described casualisation as modern slavery. He said casualisation had become a menace in the sector. “This is a message of hope for workers that have not been enjoying the joy of working. The first step is to address casualisation in the industry is to through unionisation of the workers that will give them sense of belonging. “And this will make the task of advocating for such workers much easier. The goal of the unions is in line with accordance with International Labour Organisations (ILO),” Osifo said.