Dearth of tech skills is taking its toll on Nigeria and other parts of Africa, according to SAP Africa latest report released yesterday. Entitled:  ‘Africa’s Tech Skills Scarcity Revealed’, the report sought to unveil the specific challenges and opportunities for African organisations seeking greater tech skills availability. The report stated that Nigerian companies are experiencing the impact of a lack of tech skills to a greater extent, stressing that Nigerian companies surveyed said they’d suffered a negative impact due to a lack of tech skills, compared to 60 per cent in Kenya and 78 per cent in South Africa. Managing Director, SAP Africa, Cathy Smith, said there was an urgent need to invest in skills development and training to ensure Africa can capitalise on its youth dividend. “More than half of the world’s population growth between now and 2050 will take place in Africa, where 1.3 billion people are expected to be born by mid-century. With the correct investment in skills development, Africa’s economy could transition away from its reliance on natural resources to build the world’s future tech workforce, bringing untold economic and social benefit to the continent and its citizens. However, as our research reveals, African organisations still face some difficulties with attracting, retaining and upskilling suitably skilled tech workers,” Smith said. The research was conducted among organisations in Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa in the fourth quarter of 2022. The report found that a lack of skills is having a negative effect on the continent’s digital transformation efforts. Four in five organisations surveyed reported some negative effect from a lack of tech skills, with 41per cent reporting that employees are leaving due to the pressures they experience as a result of understaffing. Other consequences include not being able to meet client needs (reported by 46per cent), reduced capacity for innovation (53per cent), and losing customers to competitors (60per cent). Nearly all organisations expected to experience a tech skills -related challenge in 2023. More than two-thirds (69per cent) also said they expect to experience a skills gap in the year ahead. According to the data, the top skills challenge for African organisations is attracting skilled new recruits, although in South Africa the retention of skilled employees narrowly edged out attracting skills as the top challenge. In response to the ongoing tech skills challenges, organisations are taking bold steps to ensure they have access to the correct tech skills. Forty-one percent said that upskilling of existing employees would be a top priority in 2023, while 40 per cent said the same about reskilling employees. “Companies are also adopting technology tools and flexible work practices to ensure they can attract, retain and mobilise the correct mix of tech skills,” says Smith. “Seven in ten organisations currently use a human capital management or employee experience tool, while nearly half (45per cent) of companies were open to remote work, although most want employees to be in the office at least some of the time. This new workplace dynamic will require leaders to co-create new models for work, with constant collaboration with employees to ensure alignment with company objectives and culture.” The ‘Africa’s Tech Skills Scarcity Revealed’ report further found that the most in-demand skills include cybersecurity and data analytics (63per cent), developer and industry skills (49per cent), and digital transformation skills (48per cent). More than two-thirds (69per cent) cited technical skills as an important attribute when recruiting, while 66per cent said industry-specific skills were important to them. The change management skills so essential to successful digital transformation were not highly prized among the companies surveyed, revealing an opportunity for smarter investment in specific skills to improve the outcomes of initiatives. Only 18per cent of companies cited change management as an in-demand skill. “Studies have shown that fewer than a third of digital transformation projects succeed, partly due to the fact that only 34per cent of change management projects are clear successes. For a continent that is rapidly transforming through the accelerated adoption of digital technologies, ensuring effective change management could greatly improve outcomes and equip organisations with new capabilities to drive growth and innovation,” Smith said. Other key findings from the report include showed that Kenyan organisations are more upbeat about their skills prospects than Nigerian or South African organisations: Only 53per cent of Kenyan organisations expect to experience a skills gap in the next year, compared to 80per cent of Nigerian companies and 73per cent of South African organisations; Kenyan organisations are more likely to expect employees to work in the office all the time; 37per cent of Kenyan organisations want employees in-office full-time, compared to 23per cent  of organisations in Nigeria and only 13per cent of South African ones. Other are the top tech skills challenge for African organisations is attracting sufficiently-skilled new recruits, except in South Africa; organisations in Kenya and Nigeria cite attracting skilled new recruits as their top tech skills challenge in 2023, but in South Africa the top challenge is retaining skilled tech workers; South African organisations place a greater premium on digital transformation skills; Digital transformation skills were cited by 70per cent of South African companies as an in-demand skill, compared to only 33per cent of organisations in Kenya and Nigeria. SAP’s ‘Africa’s Tech Skills Scarcity Revealed’ report is now available to assist African organisations with understanding the current state of tech skills challenges. For more information and to access the full report, please visit Market Research Project: Africa’s Tech Skills Scarcity Revealed.