The Federal Government yesterday said about N10billion has been set aside yearly for the implementation of activities that would boost the start-ups industry. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof Isa Pantami, made this known this during the inauguration of Nigeria Start-ups Act 2022 Implementation Committee to encourage young innovators take advantage of the opportunities in the Act ,which was signed by President Muhammadu Buhari on October 19, last year. The Committee was inaugurated at the Digital Economy Complex, Mbora, Abuja. Pantami said the Committee has the responsibility to hit the ground running given  that the implementation of the Act commenced since the President assented to the Bill. “We have commenced implementation of the contents of the Act internally. Looking at it from the beginning, the processes for implementation began with gazetting it, ensuring that financial and technical issues are taken care of, getting a secretariat for its works and seeking judicial and legal guidance for its successful implementation. “There is also the Start-ups Council, the need for a tax holiday for investors and innovators, and pioneer status for investors. These are issues that are very significant to implementation of the Act,” Pantami said. He urged members of the committee to be diligent and ensure that their works were done to promote digital growth, investment, opportunities and jobs creation for  youths. He said anti-corruption agencies should not criminalise digital innovations by intimidation of young persons they see with digital devices, asserting that they can deal with criminals but are presumed to be innocent until proven guilty. The Director-General, National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA),  Kashifu Inuwa said the inauguration of the committee was the climax of a long journey with the unprecedented support and drive of the supervising Minister,  Prof Pantami. He described the Act as a game changer for digital innovation and entrepreneurship in the country, asserting that the country stands to benefit significantly from digital innovation markets across the globe. Members of the Nigeria Startup Act 2022 Implementation Committee are Prof. Sahalu Junaidu,                Chair; Chinenye Mba-Uzoukwu, Co-Chair; Prof. Olayinka David-West,     Vice Chair; Amal Hassan, Co-Vice Chair; Mrs Juliet Odii; Faiz Bashir; Dr Dahiru Sani; Prof Bashir Galadanchi, and Bashira Hassan, as Secretary among others.