SIR: With the declaration of Bola Ahmed Tinubu as Nigeria’s president-elect, the next journey to our nationhood begins at inauguration on May 29. However, in the struggle for attainment of power and having regard to the February 25 presidential elections, kudos must go to some certain quarters. First, Nigerians’ resilience is unparalleled! Despite the series of challenges and contours placed on their path to general election, Nigerians demonstrated their will-power in enacting their sovereignty through voting-power. The president must be congratulated at least for not to torpedoing the electoral process despite the calls by many. This may go down as his lasting legacy in spite of his failure in other directions. The electoral body, both its formal and auxiliary frontiers, civil organisations, foreign observers, poll observers  and non-state actors including the press must be congratulated for facing the risk and overcoming the challenges. All the actors, political parties, candidates, winners or losers must be congratulated for their spirit of participation, as the saying goes; “the essence of going to Olympic is not necessarily to win but in the Spirit of participation”. The losers today may become the winners tomorrow especially the young and promising ones in the race of February 25. Now that a winner has emerged in the person of Bola Ahmed Tinubu, he must be commended for his undying spirit, Spartan focus, passionate patriotism, vigilant perceptiveness, bold and audacious speeches, at desired moments. His agile and robust campaign team matched his craving desire to fulfil an ambition. But the mandate comes with the daunting challenges of statehood; with pervading insecurity across the country, infrastructural deficits, comatose economy, cries and crow for restructuring, educational deficits, failure of health system, religious extremism and ethnic exclusiveness among other pervading illnesses which have all massively invited poverty, want, diseases, inequities, penury, discontent and frustration to the world black most populous country – the question is, what to do? The president-elect must on May 29 declare a state of “emergency” in these afore-mentioned sectors of our national life with a view to assembling an unusual and unprecedented team with a track record to solve them. By this corollary, a government of national harmony, unity, peace and stability cutting across all the political parties in recruitment tenor and non-governmental actors must be sought and put in place. A broad-based national team reminiscent of American Frederick Delano Roosevelt presidency in United States is in dire need at this time to dislodge all negativities from our land! The security architecture will need a synergy between our military, paramilitary and secret intelligence agencies with foreign partners. A state of emergency must be declared on education, health, power, security, social infrastructure and even in our agricultural sector. The health sector reform must drastically address the dearth of manpower in the sector: doctors, nurses, specialists who are acknowledged as geniuses, drifting to the foreign land for lack of adequate equipment and welfare packages. The restructuring agenda will not go away with the passage of time except it is holistically addressed. Try as much any political leader may try in our present dichotomies, it will not wash off our unbundled federalism, ethnic domination, natives/settlers syndromes and other dividing faults in our polity. All must be addressed at a round table with a view to producing a people’s acceptable constitution that adequately addresses our diversities. The decentralization of the centre will have to come on board with the issue of federating units, state police, local council police and other interwoven security and system analysis. The kind of industries that Nigeria needs with the rate of unemployment will have to focus on agro-businesses. Power sector and allied industry must be reorganized and decentralized. The Chinese aphorism provides an instructive lesson “that it does not matter whether the cat is white or black so long it catches the mice”; until these issues are brought out and tackled by broad consultations midwifed by the president-elect and other state collaborators, it will still be “not yet Uhuru on the summer day”. •Omotayo Ishola,  Ilorin, Kwara State.