Artiste and songwriter, Nnenaya kelly, has announced her latest single titled No Wori barely months after her hit single “My funny Valentine from babes in arms.” In this single, the American born artist and songwriter offers a unique take on the Afrobeats genre, combining great melodies with soothing atmospherics, while highlighting her passion, talent, and creative vision in ways that make her music so special. The song was written and co-produced by Nnennaya with her production team, Creatrix Empire Ltd. Written and co-produced by Nnennaya Kelly herself, “No Wori” is a fascinating original composition that captures the magic of Afrobeats with the smooth sensuality of soul music that adds much depth to the sound. In a statement, Nnennaya Kelly shared the passion and emotion put into creating the masterpiece. She stated: “My new single has a very deeply touching subject matter, “No Wori” highlights the sufferings and struggles that people all over the world face due to economic crisis, so many are experiencing hunger, lack of job prospects, loss and anxiety in this life, and people are becoming so tired and stressed out. Thankfully, the purpose of this song is to remind us that life moves on and that the storm won’t last forever.” She also mentioned that the song strikes a chord for its personal approach, and a familiar, yet distinct sound that brings together a perfectly mastered combination of ideas, while still allowing her one-of-a-kind vision to shine through. Emmanuel Alade, her Manager and CEO of Creatrix Emprire stated: “This release is a real treat, and the artist’s range, coupled with her masterful compositional skills throughout, are proof that she’s no one-trick pony. On the contrary, she is here to stay and give the audience more. This is very much a balanced combination of soothing instrumental soundscapes and present melodies that won’t get out of your head so easily. This is a song for all, regardless of your country, tribe and belief.” “No Wori” is highly recommended to listeners who enjoy deep lyrics and amazing melodies. Much like them, Nnennaya has mastered crafting a genuine connection with the audience, allowing the music and lyrics to engage with people on a deep level”. He shared. “No Wori” should be available on Spotify, Deezer and other digital music streaming services soon.