There is a need for improved collaborations across sectors to bridge the gender gap and ensure equality and access to digital skills in Nigeria, Development Communications Network (DevComs) has said. This suggestion is coming on the back of the just concluded International Women’s Day, under the theme “DigitALL: Innovation and technology for gender equality.” Expectedly, DevComs has called on civil society organisations, women movements, and other stakeholders to come together for the achievement of the key approaches proposed in several reports upon which the 2023 celebration is based. According to the DevComs, to achieve the2023 theme, it requires intentional actions from all stakeholders. Women in Africa and especially Nigeria have suffered all forms of discrimination and denial such as lack of access to healthcare services, business and entrepreneurship opportunities and use of digital technology. While women represent more than half of the global population, they are still under-represented in the digital sector, especially in developing countries like Nigeria. With the current situation in Nigeria, it has become pertinent to acquire knowledge and digital technology skills due to the numerous benefits for individuals, businesses and organisations which transcends the promotion of equal opportunities for both genders, access to digital skills is also of economic significance. Considering some of the significant benefits of digital skills; it gives women access to better and improved financial services that enable them to make informed financial decisions, it is useful to female business owners to enable them to stay ahead of competition and exploit opportunities such as in e-commerce. Likewise, women in agriculture can access more advanced agricultural techniques. Just as this year’s theme focuses on how technology and education in the digital age can help the empowerment of women and girls across the world, it can enhance gender-equality, open up opportunities to access education virtually while also accessing better healthcare systems and a healthy life. DevComs therefore calls on CSOs, NGOs and experts from the fields of technology and innovation, as well as gender equality activists to channel more efforts towards improving access to digital tools and bridging the digital skills gap among women and girls. “This we believe, will contribute to ensuring that all people, especially women and girls have equal access to digital technology and the opportunities it provides,” stressed Omobonike Adebayo, DevComs Head of Programs.