Health and wellness company, NVisionU has launched its product line in Nigeria aimed at building wealth and health. The supplements launched, named ‘Krave, Dreaming and Empowered,’ offers an innovative way to achieve optimal wellness. Co-founders and Chief Visionary Officer, NVisionU, David Imonitie, while emphasising the connection between health and wellness said the company’s wealth creation objective is to impact the lives of over one billion people physically, spiritually, financially, and emotionally. President, NVisionU Africa, Kenny Farinloye, said, “the goal is to offer great wellness products that will boost daily healthy living while providing the chance to achieve wealth by teaching skills that correspond directly to emerging megatrends and providing the playbook on how to start specific businesses through the digital learning platform.” According to him, the firm is expected to introduce four additional spray products in Nigeria within the year that will help with vision, anti-ageing, fat burn and mental health. All of these are in line with the company’s 2023 goal of generating $100m in sales with over 200,000 members worldwide. The market in Nigeria is to generate as much $20million in revenue and reach over 50,000 members, while offering over 50 per cent income split with Nigerian entrepreneurs. Since its operations started in October 2022, NVisionU, within the first ninety days has generated over $12million in revenue and gained close to 30,000 members. Nigeria is the first country to officially launch NvisionU products outside the United States. In March, NVisionU Nigeria will host Imonitie at the three-day grand opening events, which will be held in Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt. NVisionU, is a full health and wellness, nutrition, fitness, skincare, and beauty company founded by Imonitie, who has a keen background in direct sales and leadership development, alongside Ivan Tapia, a top income earner in the network marketing industry credited with creating more six figure earners in Latin America than any other industry professional in recent history.