The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) yesterday said the troops on operations in Northeast foiled plans by terrorists to disrupt the February 25 Presidential and National Assembly elections. Director, Defence Media Operations Maj.-Gen. Musa Danmadami disclosed this in Abuja during the biweekly briefing on troop’s activities and operational across the country.  He said: “Notably, on 24 February 2023, an intelligence report revealed terrorist convergence with plans to attack some locations in Kauwa, Gamboru and Monguno in Borno State in a bid to disrupt the 2023 general elections. “Consequently, series of air interdiction operations was carried out at these identified locations. Feedback revealed that the airstrike dealt with terrorists, as several terrorist were neutralised with their logistics destroyed.” General Danmadami also said troops on patrol at Okehi town in Okene Local Government Area of Kogi State arrested 8 political thugs in an attempt to disrupt the electoral process. According to him, troops in the North East killed 21 terrorists, arrested 35 others,while 36 civilians were rescued, while a total of 1,332 terrorist and their family members comprising 222 males, 411 females and 699 children surrendered to troops at different locations within the theatre of operations. General Danmadami also said troops while on ambush position apprehended a terrorist’s commander alongside his wife and 4 children at Gwoza town in Gwoza Local Government Area of Borno state. According to him, between 23 February to 8 March 2023, troops ambushed terrorists as well as intercepted terrorist’s logistics suppliers in villages within Marte, Konduga, Bama, Biu, Monguno and Gwoza Local Government Areas of Borno state. “Following the encounter, troops neutralized 8 terrorists while other fled. Troops also arrested 35 suspected terrorists’ logistics suppliers,” he said. The defence spokesperson said troops on patrol at Gusau in Gusau Local Government Area of Zamfara state intercepted a female bandit collaborator who was enroute Taraba state with the sum N1,093,000.00 only concealed in a cosmetic bag. He said the recovered sum was said to be for the purchase of arms and ammunition in Taraba state. “Also, on 26 February 2023, troops on patrol in Gusau town in Gusau Local Government Area of Zamfara state arrested a suspected bandit collaborator with the sum of N9,500,000.00 naira only,” he said. He said all items recovered, civilians.that were rescued, and suspected terrorists that were arrested by troops have been handed over to the appropriate authority for further action, adding that terrorists and members of their families that have surrendered are being profiled for further by the military.