Medical experts have dismissed a viral false claim making the rounds that the use of a popular anti-malaria drug ‘P-Alaxin’ was responsible for the death of an individual as it also causes kidney disease. The experts, including Prof Arinola Joda of the Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Biopharmacy, Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Dr Samuel Okerinde, a community health enthusiast and immediate past president, Association of Resident Doctors, LUTH; Dr Bowale Abimbola, chief medical director, Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba, Lagos, and Pharm. Lawrence Ekhator, chairman of the Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria (ACPN), Lagos State, spoke at the ‘Brand Awareness for Improved Therapy’ programme organised by Greenlife Pharmaceuticals Limited at the Civic Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos.  They all said the claim is a false alarm targeted at de-marketing the product and should be ignored in its entirety. While speaking at the programme which had in attendance, healthcare practitioners from all walks of life, Prof Joda noted that P-Alaxin is a good anti-malaria brand, known for convenient dosing and very effective as people don’t come down with malaria quickly after using it because it gives post-treatment benefit up to over 60 days, and it is very affordable for the end users.  “In any instance of the adverse effect that people may experience with any pharma product, they should endeavour to approach the pharmacovigilance unit of NAFDAC to report, so that legitimate claim can be analysed.”  Also speaking in the same vein, Pharm. Ekhator frowned at the perpetrators of the fake message, stressing that P-Alaxin has been approved by NAFDAC for malaria treatment in Nigeria, and has remained a trusted brand that he has used and recommended as a professional over the years.  In his presentation titled “Current Challenges in the Treatment of Malaria,” Dr Okerinde defined malaria as an acute febrile illness caused by plasmodium parasites, adding that the protozoan is transmitted to human primarily through the bites of infected female anopheles mosquitoes. According to the community health specialist, malaria is a major global public health issue that is responsible for significant morbidity and mortality in areas where it is endemic, adding that about half of the world’s population is at risk of malaria. “According to the 2021 World Malaria Report, Nigeria had the highest number of global malaria cases 27 per cent of global malaria cases and the highest number of deaths, 32 per cent of global malaria deaths in 2020. The country accounted for an estimated 55.2 per cent of malaria cases in West Africa in 2020. In Nigeria 97 per cent of the population is at risk.”  Speaking on things to be considered before buying an anti-malaria brand, he noted that the brand’s reputation over time, the formulation, the source where the brand can be accessed, the authenticity of the brand as approved by the government and relevant agencies like NAFDAC, and expiry date should be the focus, adding that the hoax about P-Alaxin should be disregarded as the brand remains one of the safest and most efficacious ACTs from clinical evidence.  Speaking on ‘Danger of Fake News in the Pharmaceutical Industry, Dr Wilfred Uche Okolie, marketing manager, Greenlife Pharmaceutical Limited, noted that the P-Alaxin hoax was first released in 2019 with a test message from an unknown and faceless source aiming to rubbish the efficacy and efficiency of the brand, adding that the message has continued to come back every year with a renewed effort to malign the brand.  He, however, noted that P-Alaxin is a synergistic fixed-dose combination of an artemisinin derivative, dihydroartemisinin (DHA) and a bisquinoline compound, piperaquine phosphate (PQP), for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in adults, children, and infants six months and above either weighing five kg or more, and treatment of uncomplicated malaria due to other Plasmodium species, when chloroquine cannot be used, as well as completion and continuation treatment following parenteral therapy for severe malaria.