SIR: You are without doubt, an enviable man for so many glaring reasons. One of which is that you have ruled and led the giant of Africa both as a military general and twice as a democratically elected president. Fast forward to 2003, after the end of military rule and the re-entrance of democracy in 1999, you sought to lead the country again through the nascent democracy and people were wondering if you had an unfinished business in Aso Rock which you could not relinquish. You lost the 2003 presidential election; tried again in 2007 which you also lost and it was the same story in 2011 as you were edged out again in a keenly contested election. Viola! In 2015, you won on your fourth attempt, a commendable lesson on resilience from you to the records of history. Pundits did not really expect you to do much other than fight corruption which was and is still believed to be the root cause of Nigeria’s many problems alongside disunity. Not many expected you to tackle education crisis, perform economic wonders or lead a tsunami of ICT development; if you could just tackle corruption every other thing will fall in place, or so many thought. After you were sworn in on May 29, 2015 and you gave your legendary speech of “I am for everybody and for nobody”, it took you about six months to form a cabinet. This and other issues at that time made people call you “Baba Go Slow”. It was believed in some quarters that you and your party the APC did not expect to win the 2015 general elections which was why the APC administration appeared to be at a loss many times as to what to do with power and administration.  Experts and novices alike have relied on what they call body language to at least keep abreast with your moves for a major part of your leadership, something that can be seen as poor communication.  Among the many promises you made to Nigerians, from improving the strength of the naira against the dollar, to fighting corruption and insecurity, building infrastructure, reducing unemployment, etc. it appears you only did much in the area of infrastructure.  In fact, in so many instances, the areas you promised to work on turned out worse when compared to the PDP era. Naira lost more value, unemployment and poverty increased, insecurity worsened, ASUU was on strike for eight months. One clear extreme to which your administration went was in the appointment of government officials to top posts. The records are there; the perception is that you favoured a section of the country in an unprecedented ration for a federal structure like Nigeria. The best explanation that could be given to this is that you were in search of loyalty from your appointees. After eight years in power, you will be handing over to a new administration in about three months from now. Some say it is not a long time, yet 24 hours means a lot in politics. The question is: Are you satisfied? Has the hunger which pushed you to power after many attempts been satiated? Let these coming months be the hardest you work, to check contracts your administration awarded and their performance; heal wounds, check on those awaiting justice, sweeten sour relationships through diplomacy, both in Nigeria and abroad (even if you have to travel out for a month, you have a capable vice president who can stand in for you). Even if you can’t clear your large table, at least clear your mind and heart in these final moments.