SIR: Conspiracy theories have always been a part of Nigerian politics, with individuals and groups engaging in all manners of intrigues to gain an upper hand in elections. The latest victim of such a is Rt. Hon Simon Lalong, the governor of Plateau State and the director general, APC Presidential Campaign Council, whose defeat in the senatorial elections was orchestrated by some powerful individuals and groups from within and outside the Plateau. As a leader who believed in competence and capacity over religion and ethnicity, Lalong understood that the most important thing was to deliver the best candidate for Nigerians, regardless of their religion or ethnicity. In this case, the best candidate was Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Kashim Shettima, who he believed could lead Nigeria to greater heights. The duo had been tried in the past, both having  served their respective states of Lagos and Borno as governors and set a very high standard of governance cutting across infrastructural development, agricultural advancement, improved security architecture, sustainable economic growth and other aspects too numerous to mention. Lalong’s belief in the competence and capacity of Tinubu and Shettima was not unfounded. He saw the ticket as a pan-Nigeria ticket, without any religious colouration. His decision to support the Muslim Muslim ticket was not without consequences. Although he had never lost an election in his entire political career, the senatorial elections of February 25 would prove different. He lost. Despite the setback, Lalong remains the hero of the 2023 elections. By rejecting religion and ethnic divide to deliver Asiwaju to Nigerians based on competence and capacity, Lalong showed that a united Nigeria was possible. He demonstrated that leaders who put the interest of the nation above personal ambition and sectional interests could achieve great things. Lalong’s defeat in the senatorial elections was not just a loss for Plateau State but for Nigeria as a whole. It is a reminder that the forces of division and sectional interests are still alive in Nigerian politics. However, Lalong’s sacrifice for the greater good should be a source of inspiration to other Nigeria leaders. It should remind them that true leadership requires courage, sacrifice, and the ability to put the interest of the nation above personal ambition and sectional interests. Congratulations, Rt. Hon Simon Bako Lalong, Governor Plateau State, the victorious Director General APC Presidential Campaign Council. •Dr. Abubakar Abdullahi Kuso, Jos, Plateau State.