The governorship candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa Ibom State, Pastor Umo Eno has promised to make education a priority in his administration if elected governor. In a statement, the Umo Eno Campaign Organisation said the PDP flag bearer is going to toe the line of previous and current administrations by giving priority to the education sector. The statement reads: “The administration of Godswill Akpabio made education from primary to secondary level not only free but compulsory. “The current administration of Udom Emmanuel went beyond making education at these levels free and compulsory to launching the Dakkada philosophy to awaken in the people of Akwa Ibom the ‘can do’ spirit with which every human being is imbued. The philosophy challenges every Akwa Ibomite to stand up to greatness by striving for the best in anything they set out to achieve. “Eno’s interest in advancing the frontiers of education in Akwa Ibom is evident in the fact that it forms part of his blueprint for agricultural revolution, rural development, infrastructure maintenance/advancement, security management and educational advancement (ARISE), which would be the bible of his administration if given the mandate by the people. Interestingly, ARISE is the English translation of Dakkada.” The PDP candidate has promised to adopt a different approach to education, by emphasizing skills development. This approach, the statement added, would seek to de-emphasize paper qualifications or certificates. It added: “But the Umo Eno administration would also encourage and promote formal education, up to university level. “For instance, his government would put in place a scheme that would enable first-class degree holders in highly essential disciplines to study outside the country, on government sponsorship, to return to work in critical sectors in the state, like oil and gas, as well as information and communication technology (ICT). “To achieve this, his administration would embark on the rehabilitation of existing schools and the creation of model schools. It is a strategy he plans to adopt to achieve a train-to-fit programme in a conducive and attractive learning environment.” Eno has promised that he would run a government that would prioritize operations that are based on statistics, rather than on assumptions, to ascertain what vacancies are available in what capacities. For instance, the PDP candidate has promised to create a database for the registration of unemployed youths in the state, to ascertain their status in terms of discipline and expertise. The statement added: “With such a database in place, his administration would redirect the training of youths to specific areas of need, for present and future use. “His emphasis on skills development is informed by his experience in the hospitality industry, which he ventured into more than 25 years ago as a novice, but acquired the necessary on-the-job training and skills that enabled him to grow to become an expert running, unarguably, the biggest hospitality chain by an individual in the state.” Despite his success as an entrepreneur, he did not forget the importance of more educational advancement. Though he did not get his first employment as a university graduate, he did not forget the importance of education; he later obtained a Bachelor of Science degree in Political Science and Public Administration and a Master of Science degree in Public Administration, both from the University of Uyo, while working.