From Nicholas Kalu, Tony Akowe, Abuja, Bisi Olaniyi, Southsouth Bureau Chief, Bassey Anthony, Uyo It’s victory for democracy, says Oyetola he immediate past Osun Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, has congratulated Nigeria’s President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on his victory in the just-concluded presidential election, describing it as victory for democracy and pointer to democratic sustenance in Nigeria. In a statement by his spokesperson, Ismail Omipidan, Oyetola expressed confidence in the ability, competence and administrative acumen of the President-elect to take the country to enviable heights never known in history. He noted that the emergence of Tinubu is a clear indication that the country is on the verge of democratic rejuvenation. The former governor also thanked the people of Osun, especially the 343,945 voters who came out last Saturday to cast their ballot for the president-elect in the face of harassment and intimidation from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) sponsored thugs in the State, saying that their labour would not be in vain. Oyetola commiserated with the families of the 15 APC members allegedly killed by PDP thugs in the buildup to the election and prayed for the souls of the departed, while noting that they will not die in vain. Fayemi: government of national unity not a bad idea Kayode Fayemi, former governor of Ekiti State, has asked Bola Tinubu, the president-elect, to focus on building a government of national unity. In a congratulatory statement, Fayemi said Tinubu’s political resilience, brilliance, and shrewdness positioned him for victory at the polls, adding that he would work hard to develop and sustain progressive ideology in Nigeria. ‘’I congratulate the president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on his victory in the 2023 presidential election. It was a hard-fought win, which demonstrates the crowning of Asiwaju’s efforts and vision for Nigeria,” Fayemi said. ‘’With the Asiwaju I know, I trust that his administration will fight for the interests of ordinary Nigerians and work hard to achieve our national goals of peace, unity, and economic prosperity. While Asiwaju might have been the presidential candidate of the APC, he would be president of all Nigerians and promote unity, equity, and fairness. The former chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF) called on political leaders to avoid inciting remarks, adding that there would be more opportunities in the future. He urged the president-elect to embrace a government of national unity. “I would also like to urge the victorious candidate and our party to seriously consider a government of national unity given the excellent performance of the opposition political parties. In this historic election cycle, there is no victor and no vanquished. This is not a time for triumphalism but a time to celebrate the resilience of ordinary Nigerians with sobriety.” Oshiomhole: He has capacity to build new Nigeria A former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has expressed optimism that the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has the capacity, forthrightness, magnanimity and sagacity to immediately use his victory to reach out to his opponents in the just-concluded race towards building a new Nigeria. Oshiomhole, the Senator-elect for Edo North Senatorial District, and the Deputy Director-General of Tinubu/Shettima Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), yesterday in a congratulatory message, expressed delight over the well-deserved victory of Tinubu in last Saturday’s presidential election. He stated that he was elated that Nigerians chose Tinubu over other contestants for the highest office in the land, because of his superior vision for solving the problems facing the nation and meeting the aspirations of Nigerians. The former Edo Governor in a press statement signed by his media aide, Victor Oshioke, noted that those who have had the opportunity of working closely with Tinubu never doubted the fact that he is the best person for the job at this time, stating that his victory was a clear indication that Nigerians agreed with them. The ex-national chairman of APC said: “Your (Tinubu’s) impressive private and public sector experiences are the right credentials needed at this time, to put this great nation on the right path of peace, prosperity and progress. “With your victory, we are now at the dawn of that hope. I am confident that this mandate given to you by Nigerians from all walks of life is a testimony that your visionary leadership credentials appealed to all, irrespective of their religious, ethnic and social diversities.” Ex-Lagos governor’s capacity not in doubt, says Marwa The Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa (Rtd) said he does not doubt the capacity of the president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to perform and meet the expectations of all Nigerians. Marwa, a former Military Administrator of Lagos State, in a congratulatory letter written to Asiwaju Tinubu on Wednesday, said “It is with great delight that I write to celebrate your electoral victory in the 2023 Presidential Election, from which you emerged as the president-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” According to him, “It was a victory well-deserved, and one built on years of focus, hard work, doggedness and the political sagacity of a democrat whose credential has been evident since the heyday of NADECO. We look forward to the implementation of your visions for a new Nigeria as outlined in your manifesto during the campaign. “Your agenda, as outlined in your policy document, offers hope and an assured future. And as we turn our attention from electioneering, Nigerians will be counting on you to bring your magic touch to bear and bring about a great improvement in the fortune of our great country. I do not doubt that you will meet the expectations of all.” We are all winners, says Ogala Agent of the All Progressives Congress at the collation of presidential election results, Babatunde Ogala (SAN) has said that all those who participated in Saturday’s Presidential election are all winners. Ogala who was a National Legal Adviser of the APC said those who lost the election should join Tinubu in moving the country forward. He said Tinubu was well prepared for the job of the president with a well cut out manifesto of renewed hope and assured Nigerians that he will hit the ground running from day one. He commended Nigerians for making the right choice in choosing Tinubu as the next president. He said: “The job has just started. The president-elect is going to hit the ground running. Nigerians have just made the best decision for this country at this time. They have elected a unifier, a strategist, a mentor of men and an astute administrator. Better days for Nigerians, Akpabio, Udofia assure Senator-Elect for Akwa Ibom North West Senatorial District, Senator Godswill Akpabio and governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress(APC) in Akwa Ibom State, Obong Akanimo Udofia have congratulated the President elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Akpabio and Udofia, who said this in their separate congratulatory messages yesterday, assured Nigerians of better days ahead for the country. According to Akpabio, Tinubu’s declaration as the winner of Saturday’s presidential election, showed his nationwide acceptance. According to the former Senate Minority Leader, “electioneering and campaigns are all over. May 29th would mark the commencement of the delivery of dividends of democracy to our people in our Renewed Hope promise. I congratulate the leadership and membership of our great party on this well-deserved victory of our party.” Udofia said, “Your victory in such a keenly contested election speaks volumes of your vision, tenacity, strength, doggedness, and towering democratic credentials. It also heralds renewed hope for our great Country, Nigeria. “You have shown extraordinary zeal and patriotism towards nation building through advocacy, legislation, and good governance. “You bore the vision of a union of political parties that unseated a ruling party at federal level, a feat previously unprecedented in our nation’s political history. “Your emergence as president-elect today is a fitting climax to that legacy. It is also a new beginning for our country, Nigeria and I am indeed delighted to be a part of that success story”. Tinubu will deliver, APC Lagos assures The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State has assured Nigerians that the president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, will deliver his side of the social contract. Chairman of the party, Mr. Cornelius Ojelabi, who noted that Tinubu’s victory was well-deserved, said Nigerians should be hopeful of seeing a better country under the leadership of the president-elect. Ojelabi stated this in a statement by the party`s Publicity Secretary in the state, Mr. Seye Oladejo, on Wednesday in Lagos. He acknowledged the wide support for Tinubu across board notwithstanding the keen nature of the contest. The chairman applauded all the leaders, members and sympathisers of APC for their diligence, perseverance, commitment during and thereafter the election. Ojelabi appreciated all Nigerians who inspite the excruciating challenges, performed their responsibilities to further entrench our democracy. “The electoral body, security agencies and other stakeholders will go down in history as midwives to a free, fair, transparent and historic election in Nigeria. He assured that Tinubu would fulfill his part of the social contract with all Nigerians by delivering in totality on his manifesto of “RENEWED HOPE”. Ojelabi said that this victory would usher in an era of peace, security, prosperity, nationwide growth and our restoration to a place of pride in the comity of nations. “Nigerians have chosen a president whose selling point remains his antecedent, pedigree and unwavering commitment to progressive governance,” he said. IPAC:Route all grievances against Tinubu’s emergence lawful The Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) in Lagos State on Wednesday has called all those aggrieved over the emergence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the president-elect to follow a lawful path. While congratulating Tinubu, IPAC’s Chairman, Mr. Olusegun Mobolaji, urged aggrieved persons and political parties to respect democracy and the country. Mobolaji said: “We want to congratulate Bola Tinubu of APC for his emergence as the winner of the just- concluded presidential election in Nigeria. “It is a game and contest; a winner must emerge as declared by INEC. We have to respect our democracy, we have to respect the rule of law, and we have to respect our system. “We implore anyone that has anything to contend on the results to toe the right path. They should remember this is our country and the way we handle it is how we are going to meet it. “We should follow the right path if anyone has anything to challenge, either directly through the INEC or the party. Let us approach the court of law as stipulated by the constitution and the Electoral Act.’’ “Let us maintain peace, be in harmony, be calm and approach things according to law. This is our Nigeria and we have to make it good,’’ Mobolaji added. A better tomorrow is here, says Lado Senator Basheer Lado has said that the president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and his running mate, Senator Kasim Shettima have what it takes to deliver a better tomorrow. In a congratulatory message, Lado said, a new era has begun in the country, as Nigerians voted for a leader that is determined, decisive and dependable. According to him, in leadership, experience matters and in Tinubu and Shettima, Nigerians have experience they can trust. He said their actions will speak louder, adding that a better tomorrow is possible for the nation’s youths, and for all. “I wish to congratulate the president-elect, Senator Bola Ahmed Asiwaju Tinubu and Senator Kashim Shettima for this victory. It is truly a win for common sense solutions and leadership with forwardness. “I salute our gallant party leaders and members for running the long distance to victory. To millions of Nigerians I say this – The Tinubu I know, seeks power not for his sake, but for the purpose of bringing a better life to Nigerians and re-building our country. Let his experience work for us”, he counseled. Olubadan, Alao, seek smooth transition, hail Nigerians From Bisi Oladele and Yinka Adeniran, Ibadan The Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Lekan Balogun and the Olugbon of Ile-Igbon, Oyo State, Oba Francis Alao, have hailed Nigerians for voting for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, urging political leaders to ensure a smooth transition of power in May 29, 2023. The monarch, who said Tinubu’s emergence was historic, urged Nigerians to support the president-elect to deliver the dividends of democracy to the country. In a congratulatory message made available to journalists in Ibadan by the monarch’s Personal Assistant (Media), Oladele Ogunsola, on Wednesday, the monarch urged Nigerians, especially the political class especially to ensure smooth transition of power come May this year. Oba Balogun saluted the president-elect’s tenacity of purpose, focus, determination and political sagacity, which he said, earned him the victory that could only be likened to the pan-Nigerian mandate given to the late Basorun MKO Abiola in 1993 noting that the results of the election clearly showed that the new president was strategic and meticulous in his politics. The monarch said, “Even, as we all savour the victory, he must be reminded of the enormity of the job lying ahead of him as the new helmsman in waiting. Nigeria is at crossroad and it is not by accident that the Almighty Allah raised him up at this time, considering his enviable track records both as an oil company worker and as the governor of Lagos State which today remains a reference point of what good governance should be. “Nigerians are looking up unto him to be the Moses of their time that would lead them out of insecurity, economic doldrum, unemployment, hunger, starvation, deprivation, darkness occasioned by epileptic power supply, infrastructure decay, fuel scarcity among other existential issues daily confronting an average Nigerian. Oba Alao, who is the Deputy Chairman, Oyo State Council Of Obas and Chiefs, called on voters in Oyo State to rise up the same way for Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde in the March 11 election. “I hereby urge all residents of Oyo State to re-elect Engr.  Seyi Makinde for a second term having done well in his first term,” he said. Olawepo-Hashim charges Tinubu on national reconciliation The former Presidential Candidate of the People’s Trust in the 2019 Presidential Election, Mr. Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim, has called on the president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to immediately commence the process of national reconciliation. In a statement congratulating Tinubu, on Wednesday, Olawepo-Hashim, also prayed that “God will grant the Tinubu and his running mate, Senator Kasim Shettima, the wisdom to bring the nation badly divided together and to bring succour immediately to the poor people of Nigeria who have suffered so much.” He equally emphasised that “the business of national reconciliation and healing is urgent and cannot be delayed” to move the nation forward.  According to him, “Asiwaju’s government must not be the government of the victors alone but an inclusive government, a government of every useful hand for the task of national unity and prosperity.” “Our young people have been remarkable in this election. They have come out in large numbers to say loudly they want a better Nigeria. “They represent the very best of our democracy and an immediate future that no force can stop.” The APC chieftain also commended both Atiku Abubakar, former Vice President and candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and Peter Obi, the candidate of the Labour Party for their peaceful posture. “Despite their reservations about the conduct of the election, particularly the collation of results, they have continuously conducted themselves as patriots and Democrats that they are using all legal and legitimate channels to ventilate their grievances.This is the way of democracy,” he said Kalu urges Tinubu to adopt an inclusive government The Senate Chief Whip, Sen. Orji Kalu has congratulated the President-elect, Bola Tinubu. Kalu, in a congratulatory message on Wednesday in Abuja, described Tinubu’s victory as a good omen for Nigeria. He commended the President-elect for his courage, political dexterity and maturity. The former Governor of Abia urged the presidential candidates of other political parties to join hands with Tinubu in building a prosperous nation. He cautioned politicians and other stakeholders against divisive utterances, saying that the principles of democracy were strictly adhered to before, during and after the 2023 presidential elections. “I congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari, President-elect, Sen. Bola Tinubu and the entire All Progressives Congress (APC) family and Nigerians in general on the outcome of the presidential election. “I am optimistic that the President-elect will run an all-inclusive and participatory government for the sake of national cohesion. “Nigerians will not be disappointed in Tinubu’s leadership,” Kalu said. He urged Nigerians to be wary of desperate politicians who are making unguided statements to instigate violence. Celebration galore in Osun over Tinubu’s victory Residents of Osun State trooped out en masse on Wednesday to celebrate the victory of the Presidential Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The celebration followed the official declaration of election results and announcement of the APC standard bearer, Tinubu, as the winner of the just-concluded Presidential Election by the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC), in the early hours of Wednesday. The ecstatic residents across the nine Federal Constituencies and three Senatorial Districts of the state took to major streets in their respective domains to register their enthusiasm and to give praises to God over Tinubu’s victory. The residents of Osogbo, Ile-Ife, Ilesa, Iwo, Ikire, Ila, Gbongan and other towns were seen jubilating, singing solidarity and celebratory songs in different parts of the State upon the announcement of Tinubu. Osogbo and Olorunda Local Government residents who had earlier assembled in front of Ataoja’s Palace at the popular Oja Oba and Olu-Ode markets square walked through station road, Igbonna market, Olonkoro, Ajegunle to the popular Nelson Mandela freedom park. Similarly, the residents of Iragbiji had earlier stormed the palace of Aragbiji, Oba Abdul-Rasheed Olabomi, to rejoice with the monarch over Tinubu’s victory. The residents who were in their hundreds were singing victory songs, signaling the new dawn in the political history of the country. Addressing journalists shortly after the victory rally, former Special Adviser on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affair, Rasak Adeosun, described the street show as a child of necessity for a man whom the cap fits’. Adeosun said the emergence of Tinubu has indeed rekindled the masses’ hope for a new Nigeria towards the actualisation of the mantra of Renewed Hope. ACF warns against disputed election, violence From AbdulGafar Alabelewe, Kaduna Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has congratulated Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for winning the presidential election, while urging the other contenders to take their grievances to court rather than resort to disputed elections, which could lead to a crisis. ACF in a statement signed by its Secretary General, Murtala Aliyu also commended Atiku Abubakar, Peter Obi and Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso for their issue-based, strong and sophisticated campaigns, as well as spirited contest, but urged that they should avoid disputing the elections results which can build pent-up anger into strife or violence, thus leading to bloodshed. ACF also tasked Asiwaju Tinubu to be a unifier and to redeem his promise to run an inclusive government, noting that Nigeria will only thrive under him through conciliation. “In spite of the generally positive comments by observers, this election did not pass off without hitches. There were some errors, noticeable ineptitude and avoidable lapses especially on the part of officials at all levels. Anticipating shortcomings, our laws have already provided for judicial mechanisms for resolving or redressing possible disputes and disagreements among the contestants. Candidates or their political parties should feel free to use these channels if they believe they have sufficient evidence to prove non substantial compliance with any rules that had hindered their chances.