Prominent Nigerians have continued to congratulate Nigeria’s president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, over his victory in the February 25 2023 presidential election. The Oba of Benin, Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II, has said that the emergence of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as President-elect “is a victory for all Nigerians.” He described the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as a unifier and detribalised Nigerian, who would move Nigeria to greater heights. The first-class monarch, yesterday in a congratulatory message, wished the president-elect a successful tenure. He said: “I send you my compliments and good wishes for your overall well-being. May I respectfully write, on behalf of myself, the Royal Court of Benin, members of the Royal Family, and Benin Traditional Council (BTC), to happily congratulate you on a well-deserved election as the President-elect of this great country, Nigeria. “I am confident that you will excel in the discharge of your onerous mandate that has now been democratically placed on your shoulders by the people of Nigeria. Going by your acceptance speech, you have already indicated that you are ready to be a unifier. “We join other well-wishers and Nigerians to thank God for the peaceful and hitch-free election and wish you a successful tenure. As you prepare to take up your onerous responsibilities as the President of this great country, we wish you well and once more, hearty congratulations.” The Minister of State for Education,  Mr.  Goodluck Nanah Opiah has congratulated the President-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on his election. Opiah in a statement by his media aide, Kelechi Mejuobi said that the outcome was an eloquent manifestation of the wish of Nigerians judging by the quantum of votes the president-elect garnered to win other contenders. According to the Minister who was at his Abacheke Polling Unit In Egbema Ward A during the elections, said he ensured that all the APC candidates won the Presidential/National Assembly elections in Ohaji/Egbema LGA, Federal Constituency, adding that the opportunity handed APC to continue in office through Senator Tinubu from May 29th this year, “is a wonderful development for the country’s progress.”   A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) Wahab Shittu has urged the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to prioritize the needs of the people, and work tirelessly towards creating a more prosperous, peaceful, and just Nigeria. Shittu gave the advice in a congratulatory message to Asiwaju Tinubu issued in Lagos and titled, “Congratulations on your well-deserved victory.” According to him, Tinubu’s election as the President of Nigeria is a testament to the faith and trust that the people have in his leadership abilities. He expressed conviction that Tinubu was elected President with a mandate to bring about positive change and progress to Nigeria “This is a significant moment not just for you, but for the entire country. “I believe that you have been elected with a mandate to bring about positive change and progress to Nigeria,” he said.  The Founder and President of Atiba University Oyo, James Adesokan Ojebode, has congratulated the President-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu over his landslide victory at the recently concluded presidential and national assembly elections in the country. In his congratulatory message, he said; “Please accept my hearty and warm congratulations on your huge success and victory at the recently concluded polls in the country. “I also send my sincere and best wishes for your excellent success as you prepare to take up the mantle of leadership, responsibilities, and challenges of quality governance of the good people of Nigeria. “I am also delighted in wishing you great success in many facets of Nigeria’s challenges, as you bring about calmness, security, growth, and economic freedom back to the country.” Ojebode reiterated his commitment to working with the President-elect in sustainable educational development, and also to develop a closer relationship between all strata of educational architecture as well as the development of concerted efforts in the cause of security, peace, and the entire governance of the good people of Nigeria. The Eselu of Iselu Kingdom,  Yewa North Local Government Area of Ogun State, Oba Akintunde Akinyemi has lauded Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, over his victory at the presidential election. Oba Akinyemi noted that despite the deluge of fake prophecies that trailed the presidential election, and the attempts to undermine the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Tinubu stood his ground and worked tenaciously for his victory. He said: “ I am happy that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is the president-elect. I also congratulate Governor Dapo Abiodun and the good people of Ogun and Lagos states. “ Indeed, Tinubu deserves commendation for fighting his way to victory, despite the avalanche of fake prophesies against his ambition on social media.’’