The General Secretary of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), Mr. Ayo Opadokun, has hinted that the pro-democracy group has no branch in the United States of America (U.S.A.), contrary to the report making the rounds online. Opadokun said the organisation, under the leadership of the late Chief Anthony Enahoro, decided to close down its international operations as far back as November 1999, adding that there had been no discussion or decision to reopen any office outside the Nigerian shores since then. In a statement, he said: “NADECO believes that Nigerians, either as individuals or groups, have their constitutional rights to freedom of expression and the press, as provided for in Section 39 of Chapter IV dealing with fundamental human rights and directive principle of state policy of the disputed 1999 Constitution. “However, such a right does not permit anyone to commit perjury by using other people’s names or platforms. If anyone is sure of the conviction of his heart, the person should be bold enough to create personal or group platforms to canvass chosen views and opinions. “NADECO is ever sensitive to its image and reputation so much that it has always maintained dignified silence whenever it was in the national interest to do so and to be bold and courageous to speak truth to power whenever there was a necessity for national intervention. And we are not about to change course by using expletives on any public officer rather than criticising the wrongly headed issues being pursued by the Nigerian state. “NADECO believes truly that the Nigerian state is on the wrong course and the wasteful energy being invested over the 2023 general election amount to the misdirected pursuit of a sectional rather than national agenda. “What have been the benefits of all the elections already held since 1998/1999 except that they have produced misguided, perverted and ethically unfit for public office fellows sponsored to important political offices by retired military strongmen and their civilian collaborators who have captured Nigeria by the Gulak since January 15, 1966.” Opadokun said NADECO, as a group comprising respected statesmen, civil and military, ethnic nationality leaders, civil society organisations, religious and traditional rulers, women, youth, academia, professional groups, etc, “has no connection whatsoever with the so-called ‘NADECO U.S.A’, which bore no address or attribution”.