A Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG) has congratulated the President-elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for winning last Saturday’s poll.  The group stated that Tinubu’s victory at the poll did not come to it as a surprise because  it was a product of hard work, vision and sacrifice he pioneered over 30 years ago. The ARG, in a congratulatory message by its Ekiti State Publicity Secretary, Prince Michael Ogungbemi, noted that Tinubu’s unquestionable pan Nigerian stand gave him an edge in the contest. The group expressed confidence his reign would return Nigeria to the surest path of greatness, economic prosperity and radical turnaround in all spheres of human life. “Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s victory was well deserved. He is a visioner and progressive politician that will take Nigeria to the promised land. Read Also : Tinubu will make impact on youths’  “We have no iota of doubt that a great unifier and detribalised personality like Asiwaju will strengthen our bond of unity as a nation . He is one politician that can operate seamlessly under our diverse ethnic and religious inclinations. His victory is one that will benefit Nigeria,” it added. The group, however, warned politicians against engaging in unproductive acts capable of stoking the fire of crisis in any of the six Southwesteen states after the the election. It posited the Yoruba people  will unapologetically rise up, to defend the region from being mindlessly exposed to unnecessary conflagration by desperate politicians, who are under illusion that Nigeria presidency is their birthright. The group added that Lagos State as a strategic and treasured Yoruba territory has yet to fully recover from the large scale devastatio, it suffered during the EndSARS protests that almost grounded the state to a halt. “Very disturbing was the fact that when Lagos was burning, other regions where protests ever took place enjoyed relative peace. The protesters and their masked sponsors ostensibly had an invidous plan to wreck havoc on Lagos, the “brain box” of Southwest economy before proceeding to the other parts of Yorubaland like Oshogbo, Akure, Ekiti and others. “Their sinister intention is to make Southwest a battlefield. This will not be tolerated. ARG, is saying without any equivocation that no settlers in Yoruba territory, no matter how highly placed would be allowed to destroy our heritage when their own fatherland is at peace. “It is in view of the foregoing therefore, that ARG, is calling on people of Yoruba extraction to rise up and never falter in their commitment to defend their treasured heritage,” it added.