Rivers State Governor Nyesome Wike has lauded Nigerians for voting in support of power shift to the south during last Saturday’s presidential election. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain insisted that the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is the best for the country at this crucial time. Wike also said all political deal and alliances with any other political parties in the country had ended with the presidential election. He charged members of the party to remain focused and vote for the umbrella party in the forthcoming governorship elections. Wike gave the charge on Friday in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital when he joined his Oyo State counterpart, Governor Seyi Makinde in the commissioning of Aviation Fuel Depot and Dr. Omololu Olunloyo 3.2km airport road dualisation. Speaking, the Rivers State governor who did not state in clear terms whatever arrangement that might have existed between his PDP co-governors christened the Integrity Governors, with either the APC or Labour Party, charged the voters in the state not to think anything other than the umbrella party across all positions in the March 11, governorship elections. He commended Makinde alongside other Nigerians for standing right for what is right in the defence of the unity of the country. “You can only belong to G5, stand your feet on the ground because you know what they are doing. It is only those who are afraid, who have nothing to offer that cannot stand firm, be bold and take a decision and say we must put things right no matter who is involved. “Your governor (Makinde) has shown that he is a man you can depend on; he has shown that he is a man that will not tolerate complete slavery. I am happy he is one of those that have made history by making sure power shifts to the South,” he said. Speaking on the project and lauding Makinde for the effort, Wike said: “You cannot be spending state money on Federal Government project and still allow the FG to give direction or instruction. Tell the FG to refund the monies he has been spending on the airport or he hands off and hand over the airport to them. And that is what we are talking about, true federalism. Restructuring, that is the way. This is historic as in it is the first day that aircraft can load fuel here and continue their journey. “One good turn deserves another. If he can perform this way in his first term, what then do you think he will do in his second term, he will over perform than us. He will over perform and that is what we told him, as the youth leader of the G5 and we are looking forward to handing over power to him, as we are retiring and the only way he can do that is to do better for Oyo people and I can guarantee that he will do well. Better than what he has done before,” he said. He enjoined the people of Oyo State to reciprocate Makinde’s good gesture by re-electing him to power during the governorship election, come 11th of March. “On the 11th of March, close your eyes, don’t ask, everything you press must be umbrella,” Wike said. Earlier in his remarks, the host governor, Makinde assured that his administration, if re-elected will sustain the good works and ensure that the people are better for it. Highlight of the event include, commissioning of 500,000 litre capacity Aviation Fuel Depot, 3.2km dual carriage, Dr Victor Omololu Olunloyo Airport road dualisation, and flag off construction of Dr. Victor Omololu Olunloyo Park. Other dignitaries at the event include a former governor of Ondo State, Olusegun Mimiko, traditional rulers, community leaders, party leaderships among others.