The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, says 32 survivors of the train and bus accident that occurred in Lagos on Thursday have been discharged from different hospitals in the state. Abayomi said this during a news conference while updating reporters on the accident in Lagos yesterday. The commissioner said the accident recorded 102 casualties including six fatalities. According to him, all the patients were presently in stable medical condition. He said that 19 survivors of the accident were discharged from the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH); five from the Toll Gate Trauma Centre and eight from Orile-Agege General Hospital. He added that all the victims with varying degrees of injuries and life threatening conditions were admitted and treated at LASUTH. “Twenty-five patients with moderate injuries were later referred to five general hospitals in Lagos for further treatment and to decongest LASUTH. “People donated 256 voluntary units of blood and 40 units were transfused yesterday,” Abayomi said. He commended the blood donors, saying that it would assist to replenish the state’s blood bank. Abayomi, however, noted that based on existing policy, medical bills of all patients treated as a result of the incident would be covered by the state government. He commended the staff of LASUTH and other health workers for their prompt response to the accident victims. Abayomi pointed out that the medical personnel who created a emergency tents within LASUTH assisted to save lives, speed up injury level profiling and support immediate critical action. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that a Lagos State Government staff bus carrying civil servants from Isolo to Alausa had a head-on collision with a train at PWD Bus-Stop, along Agege Motor Road. Casualties of the accident which occurred at 7.30 a.m. on Thursday were taken to LASUTH for treatment. There were 85 passengers on board the bus, 17 people associated with the accident, among which 42 sustained moderate injuries, 29 serious and eight mild injuries. Meanwhile, sympathisers including Senator Oluremi Tinubu, wife of the President-Elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the First Lady of Lagos State, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, have visited the victims of the accident at various health facilities where they are being treated. Tinubu and Sanwo-Olu were accompanied by the Wife of the Deputy Governor, Mrs. Oluremi Hamzat, and other senior officials of the state government, where they empathised with the victims and assessed their ongoing treatment at the health facilities.  The hospitals visited include the General Hospital, Gbagada; Lagos State Accident and Emergency Centre, Toll Gate and the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja. They went on a ward round and got a first-hand briefing on the train crash and efforts made to save lives. Whilst commiserating with the patients at the Lagos State Accident and Emergency Centre, Senator Tinubu came across a 23-year-old man, Osita Anazi from Ebonyi State, who was involved in an auto accident and required surgery as a result of pains arising from clinical right femoral fracture. Senator Tinubu keenly enquired about his condition and out of compassion pleaded with the young man, who didn’t have the financial means for the surgery, to stay back in Lagos, assuring that his treatment would be sorted.  According to her, “Lagos accommodates all citizens and prioritises the welfare and well-being of all Nigerians.” Besides, Tinubu and Sanwo-Olu commiserated with the families that lost their loved ones, describing the accident as unfortunate and deeply painful.  Speaking in an interview at LASUTH, Senator Tinubu urged drivers to be more careful and work to avoid situations that can result in loss of precious lives. “From our assessment of the situation, we can see that the patients are in good hands. They are stabilized. We are not God but we are saddened by what has happened. “We hope that the drivers are more careful to avoid this in the future. We commiserate with the families that lost their loved ones and wish those who are here speedy recovery,” Senator Tinubu said.   She also commended the State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and the State Government for taking care of the medical bills of all the patients, just as she presented various gift items to the victims to aid and fast-track their recovery process. Sanwo-Olu pays condolence visits to bereaved families Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday paid condolence visit to families of the Lagos State Government staff who were involved in the train accident that claimed six lives on Thursday. Governor Sanwo-Olu was accompanied by the Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola, and some members of the State Executive Council to sympathise with the bereaved families. A Lagos State Government Staff Bus with Number 33, carrying civil servants and some dependants from Isolo to Alausa had a head-on collision with a commercial train at PWD Bus-Stop, along Agege Motor Road, in the State on Thursday. The accident occurred when the Lagos State Government staff bus was about to cross the rail track and during the process, it collided with a commercial train at the location. Six out of the 85 passengers on the bus died while 79 civil servants and their dependants on the bus sustained varying degrees of injuries. Governor Sanwo-Olu, who was received by the three families he visited in Jakande Estate, Oke Afa, and Ikotun areas of Lagos State, commiserated with the bereaved families and prayed for them over their irreplaceable losses. He urged them to take the death of their loved ones in good faith and see it as an act of God. The Governor visited the families of Esther Rokosu, a staff of Lagos Internal Revenue Service (LIRS), and 54-year-old Mrs. Victoria Johnson nee Dada, a Social Welfare Officer of Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH). He also paid a condolence visit to the home of a Youth Corps member, Miss Aina Oreoluwa Juliana, who was serving in the Ministry of Education before her untimely death. During the visit, prayers were offered for the deceased families, various ministries, and the Lagos State Government.