Afro fusion talent hussy became a well-known prolific entertainer late last year when he released his most recent project “Hello” and has since then taken the domestic music sphere by storm with his domineering presence through street accolades and recently the social media scene have gradually begin to take to the youngster. With ‘Hello’ the afro pop talent showcased his afro pop prowess and his capability to fuse both high life and Fuji vibe into his craft, something that is common amongst the greatest artist that are existing in the afro music genre. His lyrical flair and rhythm has been one of the main talking points currently attracting a lot of attention to his music making him one of the most prolific break through artist last year. Creating something original from his band and showing his overall ability to stand out clearly indicates that the youngster is destined for stardom and is not shy under the spotlight. It has been only three months since his late release last year and with the current resurgence of the song on social media and across streaming platforms the afro fusion talent has shown his tenacity for success as he returns to the studio and rumors suggest that a song is in the pipe line that will rival his own record and finally cement his foundation on the afro pop and Nigeria music scene. The Butterfly Gang youngster whilst promoting his song on the media recently teases of more works to come as it is believed that there will be solo releases from the bands star man following his recent taste for the addictive notion of success. Following your recent taste for success, will you be coming out with more independent releases? The youngster laughs at this question before answering: “we will surely see how it goes”. Although Hussy and the Butterfly Gang band have been very tight lipped about his future plans following recent success but sources are already suggesting the afro fusion talent will not relent now that he has gotten a taste for success and will be looking to push beyond boundaries. Comments and reactions across social media are calling for more music from the youngster to announce himself fully to the world as not only a street icon in the making but an all-round musical talent.