Nollywood is considered the second-largest movie industry in the world in terms of output.  Over the years, Nollywood has produced several blockbuster movies that have gained wide acceptance and recognition worldwide. Data from the Cinema Exhibitors Association of Nigeria (CEAN) shows that the comedy-drama earned N646,532,267 and counting after spending only nine weeks in theatres. This title was previously held by her 2020 release ‘Omo Ghetto: The Saga’, which raked in N636 million. The 2022 release follows the story of two half-sisters who have been rivals for a while. Their rivalry intensifies when they set up their food businesses on the same street. It is directed by Funke Akindele and Tobi Makinde This comedy follows the chaotic life of Shalewa aka Lefty (Funke Akindele). Lefty struggles between living a life of wealth and comfort provided by her adopted mother or returning to her ghetto lifestyle. Released on December 25, 2020, the movie is a sequel to the actress’s 2010 trilogy ‘Omo Ghetto’ based on twin sisters who get displaced at birth. It is directed by Akindele and her ex-husband, JJC Skillz. The Wedding Party 2 grossed over N500m at the box office. The movie is a romantic comedy that follows the story of a couple’s elaborate wedding ceremony, which is threatened by several mishaps. The movie stars notable Nollywood actors such as Adesua Etomi, Banky W, and Sola Sobowale. The Wedding Party grossed over N450 million at the box office. The movie is a romantic comedy that follows the story of a couple’s wedding ceremony, which is threatened by their different social backgrounds. The movie stars notable Nollywood actors such as Adesua Etomi, Banky W, and Sola Sobowale. Chief Daddy grossed over N387 million at the box office. The movie is a comedy-drama that follows the story of a billionaire industrialist, who dies unexpectedly, leaving behind his family members and employees, who are all after his wealth. The movie stars notable Nollywood actors such as Funke Akindele, Falz, and Kate Henshaw. It grossed over N320m at the box office. The movie is a supernatural thriller that follows the story of a young man who gets involved in a cult group in order to become wealthy but soon realises that he has to pay a price for his actions. The movie stars notable Nollywood actors such as Ramsey Nouah, Kenneth Okonkwo, and Kanayo O. Kanayo. Merry Men 2: Another Mission grossed over N240m at the box office. The movie is an action-comedy that follows the story of four friends who come together to rescue a kidnapped billionaire. The movie stars notable Nollywood actors such as AY Makun, Ramsey Nouah, and Jim Iyke. King of Boys is the sixth highest-grossing Nollywood movie of all time, grossing over 230 million nairas at the box office. The movie is a political thriller that follows the story of a businesswoman who is forced to get involved in politics in order to protect her business interests. The movie stars notable Nollywood actors such as Sola Sobowale, Adesua Etomi, and Reminisce.