Shareholders of Vitafoam Nigeria Plc has approved the distribution of N1.9 billion as cash dividends for the 2022 business year. At the annual general meeting (AGM) in Lagos, shareholders approved payment of a dividend per share of N1.52. Chairman, Vitafoam Nigeria Plc, Dr Bamidele Makanjuola said the fundamentals of the company’s business remain strong as the growth in turnover in a volatile operating environment exemplified the unique strength and resilience of its brand. He noted that while turnover grew substantially, profitability was hobbled by raw materials price inflation at both local and international markets. He added that the company had to contend with many headwinds including a sharp decline in naira exchange rate relative to other major currencies, the paucity of foreign exchange, high inflation, poor purchasing power, and low disposable income of consumers among others. He assured that with renewed confidence, efforts will be intensified to grow the business lines by expanding Vitafoam’s product offerings. Makanjuola, who announced his retirement to the shareholders, after 10 years of service in line with the company’s tenure policy, commended the board, management and shareholders for their support throughout his tenure. He assured that with the company’s team of innovative management and staff,  it shall continue to post strong earnings and generate shareholder value irrespective of vagaries in  the operating environment. Shareholders celebrated and showered encomiums on Makanjuola for his exemplary leadership, characterised by integrity and dedication. They noted that during his tenure, Vitafoam recorded exponential progression in virtually all performance indicators. President, Noble Shareholders Solidarity Association (NSSA), Mr Mathew Akinlade said Makanjuola and Vitafoam deserved commendation as the company maintained strong growth during his tenure as chairman of the board. “A peep at just the last five-year performance alone is quite revealing that Vitafoam under Dr Makanjuola had grown tremendously. For instance, the revenue grew from N19. 5 billion in 2018 to N46. 3 billion in 2022,  an increase of 137 per cent . The earnings per share moved from 57 kobo to N3.38, an increase of 493 per cent. The man deserves to be celebrated,” Akinlade said. Group Managing Director, Vitafoam Nigeria Plc, Mr Taiwo Adeniyi attributed the company’s resilience to innovation and corporate culture of quality products and services. “You may see two products looking so much alike in the market but they do not cost the same price. Intrinsic values in our products stand us out. We have created a niche market for ourselves. We don’t play in every market. We don’t run at the same pace with others. We invest heavily in research and development and we customise our products to address the needs of our diverse customers, including consideration for age and gender. This is what is standing us out in the market place. We produce well and price well,” Adeniyi said.