It WAS a hard fought battle. The battle climaxed in the early hours of yesterday when President-elect Bola Ahmed Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was declared the winner of the February 25 election at 4.10 a.m. The nation’s Chief Electoral Officer, Prof Mahmood Yakubu,who made the declaration, said Tinubu polled 8,794,726 votes to beat his closest rivals, Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), 6,984,520, and Peter Obi, Labour Party (LP), 6,101,533. Tinubu’s victory marks the beginning of perhaps, the most vital phase of his political odyssey. Tinubu, the Asiwaju of Lagos and Jagaban Borgu, two of his many traditional titles by which he is popularly known is not a political journeyman but a master of the game. He did not just wake up one morning and resolved to run for president.  It was a project which he thought through and bide his time before throwing his hat in the ring. When he started moving around the country to consult people on his aspiration, it became crystal clear that he meant business. Nothing and nobody was going to stop him. From one state to the other, from one political stalwart to the other, he canvassed support for his bid. Tinubu was ready to give in order to receive, but the terms must be mutually agreed upon. They must not be one-sided terms under which a party may feel shortchanged. As a strategist, Tinubu plays by the principle of give-and-take. ‘’If you rub my back, I rub your back’’, as people say. This principle is the bedrock of his political belief. He is often surrounded by people because they know that he will always be there for them.  His nationwide consultations were, therefore, merely a formality. But as an astute politician, he knows that people should not be taken for granted, no matter the political favours they might owe you. He opened the race for the presidential ticket of his party after he went to the State House, Abuja, to inform President Muhammadu Buhari, of his aspiration. The President gave him his blessings and from then on, Tinubu never looked back. At the party’s convention at the Eagle Square, Abuja, last June, all eyes were on him despite the large field of aspirants. But one after the other, many of the aspirants stepped down for him, paving the way for his election as APC’s standard-bearer. Although, he defeated Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, former Transport Minister Rotimi Amaechi and cleric-politician Pastor Tunde Bakare, to pick the ticket, he quickly put his victory behind him and visited them to seek their support in winning the election. His magnanimity and generosity are legendary. He owes his political survival to these attributes, which many other politicians overlook. But then, Tinubu does not suffer fools gladly. You cannot abuse his large-heartedness and tolerance again and again and expect him to keep quiet. His capacity to absorb shock, betrayal, deceit and the shenanigans of those who should be his eyes and ears is astounding. As he begins a new political life as president-elect, waiting to assume office on May 29, many of his estranged political associates will surely want to reconnect with him. From now till his swearing-in all roads will lead to his house, with all sorts of people seeking his attention. Things have changed and they will do well to know that. The Tinubu of yesterday is different from the Tinubu of today. When we said in this space last week that by this time this week, his status would have changed, one was not being prophetic, but realistic. As I said then, he was head and shoulder above his fellow contestants. I knew that it was not going to be an easy race, but never knew it would be that tough, with the incredible performance by Obi. Bookmakers are still wondering what happened in Lagos State, where Obi won, beating Tinubu to a close second. To Obi’s supporters, especially former President Olusegun Obasanjo, the Ebora Owu,who we all refer to as Baba, that poll was okay because Tinubu lost. But in the states where Tinubu won, the polls, to use Obasanjo’s words, were “not credible and transparent”. Were the polls in Lagos, Osun, Nasarawa, Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Delta, Cross River, Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu and Imo, all where Obi won, and the states where Tinubu carried the day, not conducted by the same INEC (Independent National Electoral Commission) which Obasanjo and his ilk are crucifying? What makes the polls in Benue, Borno, Ekiti, Jigawa, Kogi, Kwara, Niger, Ogun, Ondo, Oyo, Rivers and Zamfara, all where Tinubu won, “tainted” to borrow the word of their media collaborators, and those of Obi and Atiku Abubakar, of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) untainted. Why are they not using the same parameters to assess the election? Must they hate a man to the extent of trying to delegitimise the election that he legitimately won? What is Tinubu’s offence? What did he buy from them that he did not pay? Now that the election has been won and lost, one only prays that they will stop bellyaching over the matter. The nation has concluded one electoral process. The stage is set for the other, which is the seeking of redress at the tribunal by the aggrieved, if they think that they have a case. If I were in the shoes of these people, I will pick up the phone today and call Tinubu to congratulate him for a hard fought election, in which Obi, in particular, stunned the nation. Will they do so? The choice is theirs. In the interest of all, they should, in the meantime, tell their loyalists to stop overheating the polity with the falsehood they are spreading over the election.   Tinubu has won and God willing, he will take his oath of office on May 29 and also be decorated with the highest national honour of Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR). As the nation awaits the inauguration of its president-in-waiting, let us join him and his family in prayers for a successful tenure. May his time bode well for Nigeria.