Despite the touted huge benefits of the power sector privatisation exercise in 2013, Nigerians have not experienced significant improvement in electricity supply. While the power generation (GenCos) and power distribution (DisCos) sectors were privatised, the nation kept the transmission lines, as a critical national asset. Regrettably, there has not been any improvement in the two sectors privatised, particularly the DisCos. Indeed, for many consumers, the DisCos have become a perennial nightmare, since they merely charge humongous estimated bills for insignificant electricity supplied. Following the privatisation exercise, 11 DisCos were created to man specified geographical areas. The hope was high that private capital and technical knowhow would be brought in by the investors, and that Nigeria would witness a quantum leap in the quantity and quality of electricity distributed across the country.  Similar progress was expected from the GenCos. Regrettably, 10 years after the privatisation exercise kick-started with high hopes, not much has changed. According to the Executive Director, Research and Advocacy, Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED), an umbrella body of the DisCos, Mr Sunday Oduntan, “since 1960, the country has not generated up to 6,000mw of electricity, thus creating a huge gap in service delivery in the system.” The privatisation exercise was geared to change that scenario. He noted that currently, Nigeria has about 13,000mw of installed generation capacity, but only between 3,500mw to 5,000mw is available for transmission. But Nigeria requires an estimated 200,000mw of power to meet the electricity needs of her 200 million citizens. The rest of the present unused installed capacity is lost to various challenges, which include maintenance and repair requirements, trips, faults and leakages. There is also the recurring shortage of gas supply, arising from the inability of GenCos that use gas to pay, contestation over gas pricing and vandalising of gas transportation facilities. These challenges are compounded by the poor performance of the centralised Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), which regularly suffers grid collapse, resulting in nation-wide blackouts. At the backend of these inadequacies, the consumers groan under severe darkness as the DisCos, with poor infrastructure, are unable to distribute even the marginal megawatts of electricity available. To compound the challenges of the consumers, as at June 2022, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) reported that out of 12,643,630 registered energy customers, only 4,898,721 (39 per cent) have been metered. Of course, the unmetered customers are terrorised with what is commonly referred to as ‘crazy bills’. And when a customer contests the bill, he/she is yanked off the supply line. So, the electricity consumers earnestly await a review of the monopoly that pervades the privatised power sector. The Nigeria Consumer Protection Network (NCPN) has asked the incoming administration to quickly review the extant privatisation laws, otherwise the electricity sector may collapse.   President of NCPN, Kunle Olubiyo, said: “It is either the Federal Government does a mid-term review of the privatisation process or total reversal of the privatisation.” He said the last administration did not get the privatisation right from the beginning. We agree that the privatisation, instead of improving electricity supply to consumers has rather compounded their woes. The negative impact on the national economy can better be imagined. The gap between what is needed and what is available is also humongous, and can only be bridged by massive investment from the private sector, and the current operators of the GenCos and DisCos appear not to have the requisite financial muscle to deal with the challenges. So, the incoming administration at the centre must brace up to revamp the electricity sector. Nigeria will not make progress without that. The 10-year cycle from 2013 to 2023 in the extant laws provides an opportunity for a total review of the sector.