Many people were injured and several vehicles destroyed when suspected political thugs clashed at the House of Representatives collation center for Bogoro/Dass/Tafawa Balewa Constituency in Bununu town in Bauchi State. The Nation reports that the violence occurred in the wake of the National Assembly election in the state. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), had announced the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ja’afar Leko, as the winner of the election, a development which did not go down well with the PDP candidate Kefas Magaji, and his supporters. Leko is reportedly backed by former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon.Yakubu Dogara. A former Senior Special Assistant on Media to Dogara, in an interview with journalists, said he narrowly escaped being lynched by the thugs who were armed to the teeth. Habila, a former Chairman, Bogoro Local Government Area, and a chieftain of the PDP, who also spoke to journalists in the state, said that the constituency election was marred by irregularities and violence.  “As a supporter of the PDP and one of the key supporters of Kefas Magaji, we were there to witness the collation of results. S uddenly, we saw thugs in trucks being brought to Bununu. We were surprised how the collation centre was transferred from Zwall to Bununu. Then later in the evening, we knew that obviously the reason behind it (transfer of the collation center) was to cause confusion and then allow them to perpetrate the evil they had. “For hours, they held the electoral officials to ransom, centers, they held security agencies to ransom and within a corner, a primary school, which they condone and they perpetrated that. In fact, it took the intervention of military personnel to go and bring out the concocted results and later on, they started unleashing terror on those that were perceived not to be with them. I escaped by the whiskers. “When most of our supporters had been driven away, they knew that it was a fertile ground for them to announce the concocted results they had. In fact, it was around 1am that they announced the results on Monday in a very nocturnal way and this is not acceptable. We were robbed of what was supposed to have been announced the winner, but it was a broad daylight robbery” he alleged.