The President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu on Wednesday morning entered into a social contract with Nigerians to provide a leadership that will lead the country to greater heights. He said his presidency will provide the much-needed impetus that will make the country achieve its dreams. In his acceptance speech titled: “the Era of Renewed Hope” hours after he was declared winner of the February 25 Presidential election by the National Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Prof. Mahmood, the APC flag bearer said he was humbled by his election and accepted to serve the country to the best of his ability. Addressing a large crowd of elated party supporters in the early hours of Wednesday at the party’s Presidential Campaign Council headquarters in Abuja, Tinubu said: “I am profoundly humbled that you have elected me to serve as the 16th President of our beloved republic. This is a shining moment in the life of any man and an affirmation of our democratic existence. From my heart, I say thank you. “Whether you are Batified, Atikulated, Obidient, Kwankwasiyya, or have any other political affiliation, you voted for a better, more hopeful nation and I thank you for your participation and dedication to our democracy. “You decided to place your trust in the democratic vision of a Nigeria founded on shared prosperity and one nurtured by the ideals of unity, justice, peace and tolerance. Renewed hope has dawned in Nigeria.” Tinubu, who spoke off text for a while further said: ” I have just been declared the elected President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I hereby accept to serve. I accept the serious mandate given to me. I will work to make Nigeria great. “I thank the Nigerian people for their abiding belief in our democracy. I shall be a fair leader to all Nigerians. I will be in tune with your aspirations, charge up your energies and harness your talents to deliver a nation that we can be proud of. “Today, you have given me the greatest honour you can bestow on one man. “In return, I will give you my utmost as your next president and commander-in-chief. Peace, unity and prosperity shall be the cornerstones of the society we intend to build. When you gaze upon what we shall accomplish in the coming years, you shall speak with pride at being a Nigerian.” The President-elect who was flanked by his wife, Senator Oluremi Tinubu, his running mate and Vice President-elect, Senator Kashim Shettima pay glowing tribute to the electoral umpire, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for conducting a free and fair election. According to him: “We commend INEC for running a free and fair election. The lapses that did occur were relatively few and were immaterial to the outcome. With each cycle of elections, we steadily perfect this process so vital to our democratic life.” He affirmed that “Today, Nigeria stands tall as the giant of Africa. It shines even brighter as the continent’s biggest democracy.” Tinubu also acknowledged the support received from President Muhammadu Buhari who led his campaign council as chairman, stressing that “he has shown that he is a truly patriotic person.” He also singled out the Vice President-elect, Senator Kashim Shettima for his commitment and dedication. “To the Progressive Governors of our party and this nation, to the party leadership, to our loyal party members. I owe you a debt of gratitude. To the entire campaign organization, I thank you sincerely. “I thank my loving wife and dear family whose support was ceaseless and inspiring. Without you, this victory would not be possible. “I am grateful to Almighty God. By His mercy, I was born a son of Nigeria and through His sublime purpose I find myself the victor of this election.” He then prayed to God to grant him the wisdom and courage to lead the nation to the greatness He alone has destined for it. “I thank the Nigerian people for their abiding belief in our democracy. I shall be a fair leader to all Nigerians. I will be in tune with your aspirations, charge up your energies and harness your talents to deliver a nation that we can be proud of. He later extend hands friendship to other presidential candidates, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, former Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso, former Governor Peter Obi and others, whom he said he held with the utmost respect, for a competitive and high-spirited campaign. Advising his opponent, Tinubu said: “Political competition must now give way to political conciliation and inclusive governance. “During the election, you may have been my opponent but you were never my enemy. In my heart, you are my brothers. “Still, I know some candidates will be hard put to accept the election results. It is your right to seek legal recourse. What is neither right nor defensible is for anybody to resort to violence. Any challenge to the electoral outcome should be made in a court of law, and not in the streets.” He also asked his supporters to let peace reign and tensions fade. “We ran a principled, peaceful and progressive campaign. The aftermath of our campaign must be as benign. “Yes, there are divisions amongst us that should not exist. Many people are uncertain, angry and hurt; I reach out to every one of you. Let the better aspects of our humanity step forward at this fateful moment. Let us begin to heal and bring calm to our nation.” Assuring the youth of a greater future under his leadership, the President-elect promised to provide a conducive environment for our youth to maximise theirs. He said, “to you, the young people of this country, I hear you loud and clear. I understand your pains, and your yearnings for good governance, a functional economy and a safe nation that protects you and your future. “I am aware that for many of you, Nigeria has become a place of abiding challenges limiting your ability to see a bright future for yourselves. “Remodeling our precious national home requires the harmonious efforts of all of us, especially the youth. Working together, we shall move this nation as never before. “My running mate, Vice President-elect Shettima, and I understand the challenges ahead. More importantly, we also understand and deeply value the talent and innate goodness of you, the Nigerian people. We pledge to listen and to do the difficult things, the big deeds, that put us on the path of irreversible progress. Hold us firmly to account, but please give us a chance first.” APC National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu and National Secretary, Otunba Iyiola Omisore led members of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) to the ceremony. Also in attendance were the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, Chairman of Progressive Governors’ Forum and Kebbi State governor, Atiku Bagudu led other governors, Umar Ganduje – Kano, Bello Matawalle – Zamfara, Babajide Sanwo-Olu – Lagos, Mohammed Badaru – Jigawa, Dapo Abiodun – Ogun, Baba Gana Zulum – Borno and Simon Bako Lalong – Plateau and the director general of the APC Presidential Campaign Council. Others are Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola (SAN), Minister of State, Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo (SAN), former governors of Osun, Borno and Zamfara, Gboyega Oyetola, Senator Ali Modu Sheriff and Abdulaziz Yari respectively. Also in attendance were Hon. James Abiodun Faleke, Sen. Tesilimi Folarin, APC Oyo State governorship candidate Gen. Yusuf Tukur Buratai, Gen. Abdulraham Danbazzau, Mr Jack Rich, Babatunde Ogala (SAN), Prince Ade Omole, Dele Alake, Sen. Sani Mohammed Musa and other party chieftains.