The Personal Assistant to Plateau State  Governor and Director General of the Tinubu/ Shettima Presidential Campaign Council (PCC),  Dr Abubakar Kuso, has congratulated the President-elect,  Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Vice President-elect, Kashim Shettima on their victory at the  last weekend’s election. At a news conference  at the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) National Collation Centre Abuja shortly after Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was declared winner of the election, Kuso thanked Nigerians for standing by APC and voting for Tinubu. He said the antecedents of Tinubu stand tall amongst all the presidential candidates and rated Tinubu as the renewed hope for Nigeria and Nigerians. Kuso, who is widely followed by the Youths  and popularly known as the “grand commander” of the youths, is one of the most dogged grassroots politicians in the North Central. Kuso is one of the first promoters of the Asiwaju Presidential Project when he formed the BTSO, a support group that is one of the biggest forces that drove the Tinubu/Shettima Presidential Project to all the nooks and crannies of the country until victory was achieved on  February 25 . He admonished the Presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, the People’s Democratic Party’s Atiku Abubakar and Rabiu Kwankwaso of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP)  to  join hands with Tinubu in building a new Nigeria. He said that it is not about the religion of the candidate but competence and capacity. A few days ago the political heavyweight and ardent supporter of Tinubu shut down Bida in Niger State for Tinubu/ Shettima in a rally that kept the people of North Central wondering how he could pull such an unusual crowd and support. The Niger politician was instrumental in winning thousands of votes for Asiwaju Tinubu  in Niger State and Nigeria at large using the BTSO platform nationwide. He prayed that Almighty God would grant Tinubu/ Shettima a very successful term that all Nigerians would be proud of.