A recent full length investigative feature article by The Punch newspaper on the operation of patent medicine stores, using Lagos and Ogun states as case studies, revealed widespread malpractices and legal infractions that constitute grave dangers to the lives and well being of millions of Nigerians. The survey, which covered about 15 outlets in the two states revealed that most of these micro pharmaceutical outfits, authorised by the Pharmaceutical Council of Nigeria (PCN) to sell only approved over- the-counter drugs, also routinely dispense fake and prohibited drugs to their clients. That this practice is widespread across the country is indicated by the fact that between 2018 and 2022, the PCN claimed to have shut down the premises of over 19,000 patent medicine stores and mini pharmacies out of the more than 27, 000 of such facilities visited, to ensure compliance with the law in their operations. Of these, 1,780 operated illegally as pharmaceutical outlets and 16,502 were patent medicine stores that violated the relevant laws. It is not surprising that most of these patent medicine stores enjoy widespread patronage, particularly among people in the low economic cadre who cannot afford the cost of healthcare in standard, approved facilities, both in the public and private sectors. The more affluent members of the society are able to afford the prohibitive cost of medical care in private hospitals or travel abroad to treat even the most minor of ailments. A prevalent practice among the operators of these patent medicine stores is that they readily sell prescription drugs over the counter without any prescription by qualified health professionals as required by law. Many of them do not display their licenses or evidence of registration within their premises as required by law. They also make available to their patrons sexual performance enhancing drugs, antibiotics, injections and other controlled drugs that cannot legally be dispensed without the approval of qualified persons. Most of the patrons of these patent medicine stores find them more easily accessible and affordable than standard health facilities. Apart from the economic reason that compels the underprivileged to patronise these stores, they do not have to undergo the series of tests and other procedures that may be required in standard hospitals and clinics before getting their required drugs. Beyond this, many of these patent medicine stores are widely believed to sell substandard, fake and expired drugs to their unsuspecting patrons. Indeed, some contend that there are more counterfeit than genuine drugs in circulation. This constitutes a grave danger to consumers of such drugs, as experts have ceaselessly warned that fake drugs invariably contain doses of harmful ingredients that cause mass poisoning. It has also been stressed that fake and substandard drugs can damage critical organs of the body, worsen disease progression as well as drug resistance and often fail to effectively and safely treat the diseases for which they are administered, sometimes resulting in preventable deaths. It is not unreasonable to assume that large scale corruption involving some personnel of the regulatory agencies and the perpetrators of these crimes is a key factor responsible for the pervasiveness of this menace. Members of the public will recall with nostalgia the zeal with which the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) combatted the menace of fake and substandard drugs during the tenure of the late Dr Dora Akunyili as its director-general. She courageously stood up to the dealers in fake drugs in the face of alluring corrupt inducement and even threats to her life. NAFDAC and other regulatory agencies in this sector have a duty to rise to their responsibilities and restore sanity in the operations of patent medicine stores as well as more seriously tackling the activities of the large scale and financially well-heeled importers of these substances who feed the patent stores. Where there is the necessary political will, this scourge can be tamed.