In a statement by Adegbenro, grandson of late Pa Alfred Rewane, the security chief, who congratulated Tinubu for winning the election, urged Nigerians to close ranks with the president-elect for the advancement of the country. A renowned security expert Otunba Adejare Rewane Adegbenro, has called on all aggrieved parties that participated in the 2023 presidential election to sheath their sword and back the incoming government of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Following the Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC) declaration of Tinubu as the winner  of the election on Tuesday, a few political political parties had kicked, alleging electoral fraud. Specifically, both Atiku Abubarka, and Peter Obi, candidates of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) and the Labour Party (LP), had rejected the result, and vowed to seek redress in the court. But Adegbenro who congratulated Tinubu for emerging as the winner of the contest said, the country was in dire need of addressing several issues, hence, appealed to the aggrieved persons to place the interest of the country above party or personal gain. To him, Tinubu’s emergence as the winner at the 2023 presidential polls was an expression of the will of the people, urging the president – elect to hit the ground running once sworn in May 29th. He said he knew Tinubu, who having worked with his grandfather, has what it takes to deliver the dividends of democracy to Nigerians. “I’m so elated that the right person has emerged. He will surely take Nigeria away from the precipice. “Having worked closely with my grandfather, Pa Alfred Rewane for the delivery of democratic governance, Tinubu is well-schooled to govern a diverse nation like Nigeria. “Tinubu’s declaration as president or swearing-in would have been the happiest day of my grandpa if he was alive. Seeing his protege rise to pilot the affairs of this great nation” “He  believes Tinubu has a knack for bringing together competent people in all fields that will form his cabinet and transform the nation. ” One thing that makes him stand out is his ability to spot competence. His cabinet will be full of professionals; round pegs in round holes. That I know about him. I hereby call on all Nigerians, aggrieved parties to support him. “Tinubu’s government is bereft of vendetta. Every geopolitical zone will benefit from his magic wand. He’s done it in Lagos, he will replicate it in a wider form now. Economically, he’s sound, security wise, he knows his onions” he concluded. Adegbenro is also grandson of Chief Dauda Soroye Adegbenro, the late Balogun of Owu Kingdom, who was the premiere of the defunct Western region.