Seven Nigerian women startup founders have been shortlisted for the prestigious Aurora Tech Award 2023. The women are among the 22 finalists from different world countries shortlisted for the award. According to inDrive – the organizers of the Aurora Tech Award – this is a moment of pride for Nigeria as seven ground-breaker women from the country have dominated the list. Out of 22 competitors who made it to the shortlist worldwide, these Nigerian women have proved their tenacity in the tech industry and shown that women can excel in STEM fields. Founded in 2021 by inDrive, a US headquartered mobility and urban services global platform, the Award supports women entrepreneurs using technology to develop their communities, aiming to challenge gender inequality in IT. The Aurora Tech Awards is an annual event that recognizes and celebrates outstanding women’s achievements in technology and innovation. This year’s competition has attracted entries from all over the world, with 22 competitors making it to the shortlist.  The judges were impressed with the quality and diversity of the submissions but were particularly struck by the strength of the entries from Nigeria. The seven women are Folake Owodunni and her startup Emergency Response Africa, Prencess Oti, and her startup Kaoshi Network, Cynthia Asije and her startup Craftmerce Inc, Ifedayo Durosin-Etti and her startup Herconomy Limited, Monsurah Alli Oluwafuyi and her startup HERRYDE, Olapeju Umah and her startup MyFoodAngels, and Ifeoma Nwobu and her startup Sendstack. Other shortlisted women include; Marie-Reine Seshie from Ghana and her startup Kola Market Inc,  Elizabeth Mwangi from Kenya and her startup Gwiji for Women, Marisa Paramita from Indonesia and her startup Ibu Punya Mimpi, Carol Kakooza from Uganda with aXiom Zorn Foundation, Carol Kakooza from Uganda with aXiom Zorn Foundation, Karina Ojanguren from Argentina and startup Humana Digital Health, Lauren Yen from USA and Fronted Records, Adila Shaukat from Pakistan and her startup Shemote. Also shortlisted are Hira Saeed and Faiza Yousuf from Pakistan and their startup CaterpillHERs, Sonia Majeethia from India and the Kadamb Inclusive Learning Tools, Iva Gumnishka from Bulgaria and Humans in the Loop, Loide Dawid from Namibia and her project K-12EdTech.Inc, Anna Ngwenyi Mafor from Cameroon and her app GreenAgain, Aggaris Anggia (Ghea) Cininta P. from Indonesia and her project GenEd, and Namya Mahajan from India and her Rocket Learning. Winners will be announced on March 8, 2023, at an online ceremony on auroratechaward.com commemorating International Women’s Day. The winners would be awarded three cash prizes: $30,000, $20,000, and $10,000 for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd place, respectively.