The Federal High Court in Lagos has permitted the Labour Party in Lagos State and 42 others to apply for an order compelling the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to comply with its rules on results transmission, pasting and independent logistics for the March 11 governorship and house of assembly election. Justice Peter Lifu granted the plaintiffs/applicants’ prayers for leave to apply for judicial review and mandamus orders directing INEC to comply with clauses 37 and 38 of the Regulations and Guidelines for the Conduct of Elections, 2022 on electronic transfer/transmission of results. The court’s leave also covers the plaintiffs/applicants’ application to apply for judicial review and mandamus orders directing INEC to comply with Section 27 of the Electoral Act on the distribution of election materials in respect of the gubernatorial and legislative poll. The court further granted the applicants’ prayer to abridge the time within which INEC may respond to their Originating Summons. The court directed that the order and the originating summons be served on INEC. Justice Lifu adjourned till March 7, 2023, for hearing.The judge granted the plaintiffs’ application on Friday, March 3, following their motion ex parte for leave to apply for judicial review and mandamus order. Read Also: We’ll address proven cases of infractions, INEC assures The suit was filed by the plaintiffs/applicants’ counsel, Ibrahim Abass backed by a five-paragraph affidavit and eight- paragraphs certificate of compliance. The Labour Party gubernatorial candidate Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour is the second plaintiff/applicant. INEC is the sole defendant in the suit marked FHC/L/CS/370/2023. Justice Lifu held: “It is hereby ordered that leave is hereby granted to the Applicant to apply for an order of mandamus compelling the Defendant and all its agents and/or their privies or any persons acting under their directions to comply with and enforce the provision of clause 37 of the Regulations and Guidelines for the Conduct of Elections, 2022 for the conduct of the governorship and house of assembly elections in Lagos State on 11 March 2023. “To wit: Mandating the Presiding Officer of all polling units to paste the Publication of Result Poster EC60(E) at the polling units conspicuously after completing the ECBA result sheet.That leave is hereby granted to the Applicant to apply for an order of mandamus compelling the defendant and all its agents and/or their privies or any persons acting under their directions to comply with and enforce the provision of clause 38 of the Regulations and Guidelines for the Conduct of Elections, 2022 for the conduct of the governorship and house of assembly elections in Lagos State on 11 March 2023.