•Government should take proactive step to avert possible devastation tomorrow The earthquake that devastated Turkey and Syria on last month has called attention of the world, especially scientists, to the need to intensify studies on causes and prediction of the natural disaster. Many areas or countries that were earlier considered safe have been discovered to be unsafe now. It is a call to African countries to sit up, empower their scientists and constitute experts around environmental studies – architects, builders, estate management, civil and structural engineering, among others,  to advise on the way forward. Nigeria, especially, cannot pretend it had not been forewarned by movement of the earth in the past. Areas around Saki,  Ibadan and ijebu-Ode  in the South West, and the Federal Capital Territory in the North Central had been hit by tremors in the past. This is an indication that the country is not safe, after all. That they were mere tremors that did not bring devastation as experienced in Turkey, Haiti or parts of the United States of America in the past, is no guarantee that the natural warnings we have received could be conveniently ignored. The devastation in Northern and Central Turkey claimed more than 40,000 lives and rendered many homeless, in addition to causing the ruin of so many businesses and public utilities. In Nigeria, where cities, towns and villages are hardly planned, quacks are engaged to build houses, regulations guiding high rise buildings are hardly adhered to, it is frightening to envisage what happens in the event of an earthquake.  In November 2021, a 21-storey building under construction collapsed in Ikoyi, Lagos. A report by Building Collapse Prevention Guild indicates that no fewer than 61 buildings collapsed in various parts of the country in 2022.  This was without any incident of earth movement.  It is more frightening that those in positions of authority are doing nothing about it. Neither at the federal nor the state level is anyone reportedly paying more than cursory attention to the fact that, if buildings collapse so frequently on their own, failing to prepare for a possibility of serious quakes is wilfully inviting disaster. Corruption is one major reason that people easily bypass the authorities when planning to build their houses. Many are known to build on waterways, under high tension wires and land reserved for development. Previous collapses did not lead to conclusion in terms of applying the law with regards to punishing the offenders. Even in Turkey, corruption and negligence were identified as some causes of the devastation as some buildings at the centre of the earthquake were unaffected because they adhered strictly to the building codes for the area. Areas where there had been tremors before or areas identified as potential earthquake belts in Nigeria,  such as parts of Oyo, Kaduna, Rivers and the Federal Capital Territory,  among others, should immediately take heed and take proactive steps in educating the people on what to do to avert serious consequences in terms of lives and property. While earthquakes are natural disaster that, as at today cannot be prevented, preparations could mitigate the effects. Even without earthquakes, many Nigerians are displaced from home by insecurity. Lives are lost daily as bandits reign freely in the Northwest and Northcentral. Flood easily pulls down buildings, thus rendering many homeless, without means of livelihood. This is time to do the needful. Future generations will not forgive leaders of today who fail to ensure a more secure and better tomorrow.