The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church Of God (RCCG) Pastor Enoch Adeboye has commended Premium Trust Bank for establishing a branch at the Redemption City, Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The cleric spoke when he presided over the tape cutting event and opening ceremony of the branch within the camp ground.  The Redemption City branch is PremiumTrust Bank’s 8th branch in nine months of the bank’s existence.  Adeboye, fondly called “Daddy GO”  highlighted the bank’s commitment to impacting lives and communities where it does business.  He prayed for the bank and expressed hope that the branch would perform excellently.  “Those who do business with the bank will prosper,” Pastor Adeboye said. Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of PremiumTrust Bank, Mr. Emmanuel Emefienim, thanked the cleric for his continuous support since the idea of founding the bank was conceived.  Emefienim added: “In nine months of existence, we have won three awards; LEADERSHIP Most Innovative Bank (2022), BAFI Nigeria’s Fastest Growing Bank 2022, and BAFI Bank of the Year 2022 (Sports Development). “We were Lead Sponsor/Sole Banker to the 21st National Sports Festival; we co-sponsored and kitted Bayelsa Queens FC who represented Nigeria at the CAF Women’s Champions League Competition in Morocco, where they returned with a Bronze Medal; PremiumTrust also signed on two world-class renowned Athletes, Tobi Amusan and Ese Brume as Brand Ambassadors; this was done to encourage them, provide training funds to enable them to compete and excel in their chosen field and do more for our Country – Nigeria. This is in addition to our three-year partnership deal with the Athletics Federation of Nigeria. All of these put together made us stand out as worthy winners of these prestigious awards. “We want to be the number one digital bank in Nigeria by rolling out digital solutions like you have not seen in the history of banking in Nigeria. These solutions would give our discerning customers access to financial services around-the-clock and from the comfort of their homes.” Gospel singers Nathaniel Bassey and BJ Sax and their musical teams thrilled atttendees.