The Police in Ebonyi State has declared the governorship candidate of the All Progressive Grand Alliance(APGA), Ifeanyi Odoh wanted. Odoh and nine others were declared wanted on Monday over the murder of a monarch, Igbokwe Ewa. The monarch was killed last Monday in his country home by unknown gunmen. He was the traditional ruler of Umu-Ezekoha community in Ezza North local government area. Following his death last week, the ruling All Progressive Congress(APC) accused Odoh and his supporters of having a hand in the monarch’s death. But Odoh vehemently denied the allegation, stating that the monarch, who hails from same local government with him,  was like a father to him. However, on Monday, Ebonyi police spokesperson, Onome Onovwakpoyeya in a statement declared Odoh and 9 others wanted. He said: “The Ebonyi State Police Command has declared the under-listed persons wanted in connection with the murder of his Royal Highness Eze Christopher Igboke Ewa of Umu-Ezekoha Community in Ezza North.” He listed others on the wanted list to include: Samuel Onyekachi Aligwe, Peter Orogwu (aka one boy),Chukwudi Aliewa (aka Ezza) and Chika Ezealigbo Others are : Nnaemeka Egede (aka Champaign),  Nnabuike Okohu, Ogobuchi Agbom (aka Okiri), Nonso Obasi, Ikechukwu Nwoba (aka Solid). Late last year, Odoh and his convoy were attacked in Izzi local government. Though no live was lost in that attack, one of the cars in his convoy was damaged by gunshot fired by attackers. Odoh was again a victim of deadly attack in Ishielu local government area, during which a police officer and his personal driver died. The home of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) House of Representatives candidate for Izzi/Abakaliki constituency, Barnabas Ofoke was also attacked by gunmen last month. Cars and other valuables in the compound used as campaign ground of the party’s governorship candidate, Ifeanyi Odii, were destroyed. An APC supporter was also killed last month in Íshielu local government area as gunmen opened fire on a campaign ground in the area. Odoh could not be reached for comments.  He did not take calls placed to his phones. His Media Aide, Charles Otu also failed to take calls placed to his phone numbers at the time of this report.