The Lagos State Government claimed on Saturday that it had uncovered plans by some people to exhume the body Whitney Omodesola Adeniran, the late 12-year-old student of Chrisland School, Opebi, Lagos. Miss Adeniran died on February 9, 2023, during the school’s inter-house sports activities at the Agege Stadium, Lagos. She was buried in Lagos on Thursday. An autopsy conducted by the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) dated March 1, 2023 revealed that she died as a result of asphyxia and electrocution. In a statement issued yesterday, the state government, through Ministry of Justice, disclosed that certain persons were making plans to exhume the body of the deceased. The state said it would oppose any attempt to exhume the body. The statement signed by Grace Alo, Director, Public Affairs, said: “The Lagos State Ministry of Justice is aware of the current ongoing dialogue about the alleged plans to exhume the body of the late Whitney Omodesola Adeniran, a student of Chrisland Schools whose death as revealed by the autopsy conducted by the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital was as a result of asphyxia and electrocution. “Whilst we have not received any such official communication requesting for exhumation, however if and when we do receive such a request, we shall be opposed to it.” The statement emphasized that “the circumstances for exhumation under the Coroners’ Systems Law, 2015 do not arise in this case. “Additionally, it is not our intention to further traumatise the deceased’s family. “We are working closely with the police who have given their reassurance that the duplicate case file would be forwarded on Monday, 6th of March, 2023 to the Directorate of Public Prosecutions to aid the speedy issuance of Legal Advice.” An earlier statement issued last Thursday from the office of the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Moyosore Onigbanjo, SAN, stated that the post-mortem report revealed the cause of death to be asphyxia and electrocution. Read Also: Chrisland: Commissioner confirms receipt of post-mortem report on Whitney Adeniran It stated that the Directorate of Public Prosecutions had been instructed to issue legal advice on the matter with immediate effect. “The Lagos State Government commiserates with the deceased’s family while reassuring Lagosians that anybody found culpable would immediately be charged to court.” The mother of the deceased had confirmed the autopsy report during a live Instagram video. She said: “The autopsy result is out and ‘Desola was electrocuted. “My daughter died of electrocution. “I have been subjected to trauma for the past two weeks. “Tomorrow (Thursday) will make it three weeks since my baby died. The school made me to think I was crazy.” She alleged that the school claimed the deceased was ill. Mrs. Adeniran said: “They started pushing the narrative of she was sick; she was sickly. They sent letters and publications out. “People insulted me and my family. My child was electrocuted to death. I told the school that I don’t want trouble. All I want is answers. They came to my house and knelt.” Mrs. Adeniran alleged that the school failed to properly investigate the incident. “I begged, I pleaded, I said, ‘Mrs. Amao, please, I don’t know how an autopsy is done but I have browsed it and the images are scary. Please, my daughter is already dead, don’t make me put her through that, they will butcher her. I beg you in the name of God, you are a mother, help me investigate and find out what happened. She said she didn’t know. “My daughter was butchered for autopsy. She was opened up. They took part of her kidney, liver, stomach contents, blood, brain, and bone marrow. Omodesola was butchered.” The school’s management had earlier said in a statement that the deceased child slumped in “public view and not under any hidden circumstances,” and was immediately rushed to the nearest medical facility for first aid.