By Feranmi Adeniran A FORMER commissioner and gubernatorial candidate in Lagos State, Chief (Mrs.) Remi Adiukwu, has congratulated Bola Tinubu, Nigeria’s president-elect, for his victory at the presidential polls. The Lagos-born politician, who was a commissioner inTinubu’s cabinet when the president-elect was governor of Lagos State, also congratulated Nigerian women on the victory, saying the coming of Senator Remi Tinubu will transform the lives of many women across the country. Adiukwu also described Senator Oluremi Tinubu, wife of the president-elect, as a kind hearted mother who is never tired of putting smiles on the faces of the people. She recalled that as the First Lady of Lagos State, Mrs. Tinubu spent all her time, energy and resources to search for ways of improving the living conditions of women and children. “As first lady, she established the New Era Foundation, dedicated to establishing centers for all round development of young ones and promote public awareness on environmental health and community service. “She has always been passionately on the need to revamp the health sector, taking into cognisance the issue of brain-drain due to the mass exodus of Nigerian medical doctors and pharmacists abroad in search of greener pastures. She worked hard in her previous positions to improve education, health and social intervention efforts of government. He is people-centric and a wlfarist to the core. At the same time, she supported her husband when he was governor of the Lagos state in all ways possible. “We should look forward to a great time with her as the mother of the nation. She is a kind hearted mother. She is someone who is never tired of putting smiles on the faces of the people. When she was the First Lady of Lagos State, I can recall that Mrs. Tinubu spent all her time, energy and resources to search for ways of improving the living conditions of women and children. The many innovations she brought to governance back then are still there for all to see. “She will replicate all these and even do more when she takes office as the First Lady. It will be a wonderful time for us women and our children because Remi Tinubu is a welfarist who cannot bear to see women and children suffer. Therefore, it is with a heart full of thanksgiving and adoration to God almighty that I warmly congratulate His Excellency, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and his wonderful wife, Senator Oluremi Tinubu, on the well deserved and hard earned victory at the 2023 presidential elections held on Saturday February 25, 2023 across the country. “I also salute the foresight, resilience and planning that culminated in Tinubu’s declaration as the President-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. As a co-traveller in his politics and administrations, I make bold to say his desire for a better Nigeria is the main thrust behind his political aspirations right from the word go. And coming to take the presidential seat is the reward for painstaking planning and bridge building of decades. With our admirable First Lady, Senator Oluremi Tinubu beside him all these years, providing much needed supports, they have dreamt and planned on what needed to be done to achieve the desire of having the chance to retool Nigeria. “Today, God has answered our prayers. I congratulate the new Mother of the Nation. As First Lady and later as a Senator of the Federal republic, Mrs. Tinubu has proven that she simply desires to take care of the people. Bills like Social Security (National Social Security Agency Bill) 2012, Employment (Labour Act Cap L1 LPN Amendment Bill) 2012 and 2016, National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) Act Amendment Bill, 2017 and others that she championed while in the Senate showed her as someone out to touch the lives of all and sundry,” Adiukwu said.