A cleric and former Lagos State Commissioner for Home Affairs, Dr. AbdulHakeem Abdulateef has appealed to Christians and Muslims in Lagos to come out en masse on Saturday to vote for re-elect Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and all All Progressives Congress (APC) House of Assembly candidates. This, he said, was to ensure the symbiotic relationship between the state and the Federal Government. The former commissioner also congratulated the President-Elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, saying Almighty Allah elevated him and that his victory and was well deserved. He pleaded against allowing religious sentiments to determine the governorship poll. “Lagos needs to be retained under APC for continuous development. The incumbent governor and his deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat have done very well and therefore deserve to be returned,” he said. Abdulateef noted that all the votes cast for Tinubu would become a complete waste if Governor Sanwo-Olu election. “There must be a handshake between the federal and the state government. The Federal Government only has competence over the exclusive legislative list in the nation’s constitution. Still, the state has exclusive jurisdiction over the residual matters and both of them must work together on the concurrent list and that is what can translate into development. The reason Lagosians irrespective of religious or tribal affiliations must ensure Governor Sanwo-Olu is re-elected to ensure proper synergy between the state and federal government,” he said. He faulted those who voted against Asiwaju Tinubu due to the Muslim-Muslim ticket. “In Nigeria, we are one, the Muslim-Muslim ticket was electorally correct and it is the only politically expedient decision Tinubu could have taken. He loves Christians, Muslims and even pagans. The campaign against Tinubu and his party not to retain Lagos is meant to ridicule him (Tinubu), which will make him not having governor who will translate his policies at the federal level into domestic prosperity. We should remember that he is the architect of modern Lagos, hence this is the time to consolidate his vision for Lagos. Lagosians should ensure the ruling party in the state is retained,” he said. Abdulateef pleaded with Christian and Muslim communities and leaders to support Sanwo-Olu and desist from voting based on sentiments. “I’m a Chief Imam supporting Sanwo-Olu, simply because my vote for Asiwaju Tinubu will be of no effect if the state government goes to the opposition party. I will not ever have a feel of what it means to have a Federal Government that is determined to right the wrongs in Nigeria. Let’s protect this land from the aggressors. Let us all vote for Sanwo-Olu for consistency,” he said. He expressed displeasure over the plan to take over Lagos State due to hatred conceive against the builder of the state, Tinubu, saying “Allah has used him to build the state they want to take over. Do you know it will be a great disservice for Lagos State to be in opposition when the builder of the state has been elevated by Almighty Allah to become the president of Nigeria?”