A group, Obidatti Alliance (TOA), has denied supporting the governorship candidate of the People’s Democratic Party ( PDP) in Cross River Dr Sandy Onor.  The group, in a statement by its chairman, Dr Josephat Odey, its Secretary, Mrs Glory Itam, and 16 others, on Saturday, urged supporters across the 18 local government areas to discountenance any form of endorsement. It said it was not part of any coalition groups and as a major voice, whose unwavering support for Mr Peter Obi remains unperturbed, have deemed it necessary to remain resolute in its decision. The statement reads:”The leadership of The Obidatti Alliance (TOA) vehemently frown at the information all over the social media and other media outfits that the coalition of Peter Obi (CPO) have unanimously endorsed Senator Sandy Ojang Onor as the gubernatorial candidate. “The Obidatti Alliance (TOA), a vanguard of so many other groups, is not part of any purported coalition groups. As a major voice whose unwavering support for Mr Peter Gregory Obi remains unperturbed, we have deemed it necessary to remain resolute in our decisions backed by enlightened individuals, new concept and robust talents. “Having observed the symbolic death of our dear state, The Obidatti Alliance (TOA) and fellow Obidients across the 18 local government areas should discountenance any form of endorsement as efforts and meetings are still ongoing to formally assess, endorse and ratify the Governorship candidate in Cross River State. Read Also : INEC chair threatens legal action as PDP demands his resignation “The Obidatti Alliance group (TOA) in the 36 state of the federation and 18 local government in Cross River State see this early endorsement as cheap blackmail of the Obidients’ movement, our principal and other enlightened groups in the cosmic reality of our environment. Our target is to right the wrongs and also educate and inform all obidients on the right path to follow. “It is against this backdrop that The Obidatti Alliance (TOA) has firmly resolved not to support any Governorship candidates) until we finish consulting our principals at federal and state levels. Please, all obidients under the auspices of The Obidatti Alliance(TON) are advised to remain calm.”