The Central Bank of Nigeria’s twin policy of naira redesign and daily cash withdrawal limit has led to private-sector business contraction leading to reduced output and  jobs cut. The Purchasing Managers’ Index compiled by S&P Global, which measures the performance of the private-sector economy, fell to 44.7 in February from 53.5 the month before. It’s the worst reading since the height of the coronavirus pandemic in June 2020, according to a report byBloomberg yesterday. Stakeholders in the economy have blamed the apex bank for improper planning and implementation of the programme. The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) said the failure of the bank to plan and implement a phasing out of the old naira notes has caused a serious strain on many businesses. Its Director-General, Chinyere Almona, in a statement, said the naira redesign has triggered varied reactions and feedback that suggest that related issues like the phasing of old currency notes, withdrawal limit, and the scarcity of new notes may have started to impact businesses and social livelihood beyond intentions. Entitled, “LCCI statement on phasing out of old naira notes,” it said while banks had endeavoured to meet the current demands of their customers through Automatic Teller Machines (ATMs), and electronic transfers, the scarcity of the naira had rendered their efforts ineffective.  “With the launch of the redesigned naira notes last December, expectations were high for the smooth transition to the use of the new notes for business transactions across the country. “We regret to note that expectations have been dashed, business deals impeded, and loss of time and value experienced by many. The Central Bank needs to enlighten the public on grey areas about the scarcity of the new naira notes in addition to strengthening its policy implementation capacity. This is the minimum expectation in the face of a currency crisis in which we find ourselves,” the statement read in part, lamenting that businesses have been left to suffer the consequences of the CBN currency management policy lapses. The President of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Otunba Francis Meshioye, equally lamented the negative impact the naira notes scarcity is taking on the productive sector of the economy. Meshioye said the current scarcity of naira notes had negatively impacted business activities by disrupting the proper flow of goods. According to him, the current naira scarcity and the challenge with e-payment platforms, have negatively affected the free flow of goods.  “I want to assume that this is a very short-term problem. It is general. Even if you want to do e-banking, there are some things you cannot do at the moment. We have problems. PoS is not working. “There is no way any scarcity of something that is essential to the consumer will not affect the producer. We feel it because it hinders the proper flow of our goods to the end user. What effect is that going to have? It means we will pile stock, and when we pile stock, it means cash is trapped. We pay high-interest rates and they won’t yield good returns and investments go to where returns come regularly.  “No investor wants to play with his money. This is a very big issue in the economy now. If you put all these together, you will agree with me that we are really facing a critical time as manufacturers,” the MAN chief said.