The Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) has urged president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to implement policies that would result in large-scale transformation of the economy, security, social infrastructure, and human capital development.  It expressed confidence that Tinubu would use his wealth of experience to assemble experts to administer the country in a way that would foster unity, peace and sustainable development that we all crave.   The NSCIA, led by its President-General, the Sultan of Sokoto Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, gave the advice in a statement by its Deputy Secretary General, Prof. Salisu Shehu.  It congratulated Tinubu for his victory in the presidential poll on behalf of the Muslim Ummah in Nigeria, and urged him to be righteous in the discharge of his responsibility when he is sworn in as the president. Tinubu was declared the winner of the presidential election with 8,794,726 votes ahead of Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Peter Obi of the Labour Party and Rabiu Kwankwaso of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Shehu said the council was not surprised by the outcome of the election taking into consideration the former Lagos State Governor’s “track records in public service, decades of hard work, selflessness, sacrifice, unflagging commitment and dedication to the Nigerian project….” The statement reads: ” The Council is also very grateful to the Almighty Allah for the victory which is a clear manifestation of His immense favours on you and His preference that you lead our great people and nation at this point in time. Alhamdulillah! “Meanwhile, your victory did not actually come to us in the Council as a surprise. We have followed with keen interest your trajectory in the Nigerian political landscape. We can attest to your track records in public service, your decades of hard work, selflessness, sacrifice, unflagging commitment and dedication to the Nigerian project as well as the excellent interpersonal relationships that you have built across the country over the years. “In addition, Your Excellency, you are a very experienced human and financial resources manager, a hunter of talents and an enabler of men and women. You are sui generis among your peers in the encouragement that you constantly give to the Nigerian youths to offer their best in the service of our country.  “Consequently, the Council is confident that you would bring to bear your wealth of experience in assembling an all-inclusive team of experts in the administration of our country in a way that would foster unity and peace as well as engender sustainable development that we all crave.” The council noted that justice is considered as the hallmark of leadership and a non-negotiable requirement of Islam. It urged Tinubu, upon assumption of office, to put in place policies and measures that would lead to the large-scale transformation of the economy, security, social infrastructure, and human capital development. It also remind the APC leader that as a Muslim in a position of authority, “leadership is trust and a lot will also be expected from and demanded of you by the people of this great country.   “We, therefore, urge Your Excellency to continue to be good, truthful, honest, fair, transparent, disciplined, prayerful and righteous in the discharge of the duties Allah has entrusted to you because every opportunity is for an appointed term. You can always count on the support and prayers of the NSCIA in this respect. “We pray that the Almighty Allah bless you abundantly and grant you success so that your tenure shall be a reference point in the annals of leadership in this country.” The council further prayed the Almighty to guide, guard and grant him the wisdom and strength to discharge his duties creditably, “so as to showcase and enhance the image of Islam by your exemplary conduct and performance.”