President-elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is not a novice to sports and his Midas touch in Lagos brought positive changes to the face of sports in the state. His interest goes beyond erecting facilities as it was under his government that Lagos started hosting major international competitions. Even some former Nigeria internationals confirmed his passion for sports while some of them have benefited from the magnanimity of Tinubu. With the majority of Nigerian youths taking part in various sports, stakeholders believed Tinubu can bring to bear his magic wand in order to make sports in Nigeria great under his watch. MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN and OLALEKAN OKUSAN write. Former Nigeria international Nwankwo Kanu cannot forget the support his foundation – The Kanu Heart Foundation- got from president-elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu when he founded the body in 2000. The former Arsenal of England admitted that Tinubu was a major supporter of the foundation. Under Asiwaju Tinubu’s governorship in Lagos, policies and programmes were put in place to ensure sports development thrive and this enabled athletes to excel in various competitions at home and abroad. His tenure as Lagos State Governor brought international reputation and attention to the sports industry in Nigeria and was the first governor to stage a world-class tennis tournament through the Annual Governor’s Cup which was later rechristened Lagos open. Played annually at the Lagos Lawn Tennis Club yearly since the year 2000, the Lagos Open has attracted some of the best players in the world since it became an International Tennis Federation (ITF) standard tournament. Given his drive for sporting activities, two-time Olympic medallist Enefiok Udo-Obong specifically urged the President-elect to appoint a technocrat who understands the whims and caprices of sports, adding a competent sports minister will bring further vibrancy to the sector. “Since it is the same government as the current ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), I don’t mind the continuity of the outgoing government in terms of their sports policy but the person that will man sports must be well versed in sports so that such individual can be a minister of sports and not football,” he Sydney 2000 gold medallist cum writer told NationSport. “We need a round peg in a round hole to take charge of sports for us so that we can revive the fortune of our sports and produce more world stars that will make the country proud in all major competitions.” Incidentally, Sumonu Bello-Osagie, the erstwhile Super Eagles coordinator equally believed that the president-elect’s consummate passion for industry and love for the youths would vastly improve the development of sports under his watch. “I think we all know the capacity and capability of Asiwaju Tinubu already,” noted SBO as the burly official at the Nigeria House in New York is fondly called. “That he would walk his talk, especially about his readiness to work for Nigeria is never in doubt given the fact about all that he did when he was Lagos State Governor. “Again, we all heard him loud and clear during his acceptance speech that the youths would also be at the centre of his administration and we know that it is the youths in their millions that are involved in sport and I think we have an interesting future ahead of us as far as sport is concerned. “Having said that, I would like Asiwaju Tinubu to ensure that sports policies are geared towards professionalism at all levels. Of course, we all know that in a country like ours, we can’t discountenance the amateurs because it serves as a veritable platform for the development of young athletes. “But by and large, our sport is not where it should be and I will be happy if the president-elect can give attention to sports than mere lip service as we’ve had many times in the past. “Sports development is more than putting up facilities, we need development of the human capital too as such the person to be entrusted with the ministry of youth and sports development in the coming dispensation must be ready to harness all these variables and breath a new life into the sports sector,” added SBO who was one of the brains behind Nigeria’s success at the Atlanta 1996 Olympics where the national U-23 team (Dream Team) won Africa’s first soccer gold medal. Yet, one of the emerging forces in sports administration in Nigeria and the cosmopolitan Federal Capital City Football Association (FCTFA) chairman, Adam Mouktar Mohammed, is also backing the president-elect to succeed on all fronts including sports. “First and foremost, I congratulate the president-elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu on his well-deserved victory and we look forward to a ‘renewed hope’ for the sports sector; it must be one of the major policy thrust for the new government,” explained the self-styled ‘game changer’ who has given football in the FCT and its environs a big facelift in terms of infrastructural development and human capacity development. “My Hope and dream is to see HE Asiwaju Tinubu hit the ground running and first indicate he has a proper plan for Sports as an important sector, and a major indication would be his appointment of who will man the ministry of youth and sports development and push the agenda.” In his usual pragmatic way, Mohammed further canvassed for the calibre of person that should henceforth man the sports ministry: “We want to see a young dynamic competent person with fresh ideas, vigour and passion to deliver on a road map plan as per infrastructure, logistics and manpower in order to deliver bottom to top foundation as well as building a strong structure and new culture in the entire sports’ ecosystem. “We also need massive investment, focus, and governmental support at all levels for sports to thrive,” he added. However, Commodore Omatseye Nesiama (retd), a board member of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) has suggested ways out of the current quagmire in sports, adding the president-elect must do things differently in order to breathe fresh air into the sporting sector. “I will suggest two levels for consideration for the president-elect Asiwaju Tinubu and these are the strategic and operational levels,” Nesiama, a World Athletics License Athletes Representative, told NationSport. “At the strategic level, consideration must be given to the proper establishment and constitution of the National Sports Commission (NSC) and this should be the body to direct and begin the processes of implementing the recently approved sports policy. “At the operational level, there are two-pronged approaches: the development pathway and the performance pathway. Both have defined processes and procedures to achieve desired objectives,” noted the World Athletics Silver badged Referee. Still, foremost sports broadcaster, Bimbo Adeola, has listed a six-way route for the president-elect in order to rejig the sports sector, adding his will to clean the Augean stable would be crucial in order to put the sport on a high pedestal despite other competing interests. “Frankly, I would like the president-elect to focus on six arrears to serve as the fulcrum of his administration as per sports,” Adeola a.k.a Top Striker, said. He added: “These are investment and development of facilities; strengthening school sports for more talents to be discovered, improved funding is needed for the federations from the government; encouragement of Corporate Nigeria to invest by granting them tax holiday; execute all the propositions of the NESG-Nigeria Economic Summit Group (NESG) as far as sports is concerned and the Nigeria Premier Football League (NPFL) should be a truly professional league and not the ragtag that we currently have.” Meanwhile , Nigeria Table Tennis Federation (NTTF) Vice President Adesoji Tayo believed that in line with the campaign plans of the president-elect , his government should be conscious about the youth in relation to sports. “Looking at the antecedents of the President-elect when he was Lagos State Governor, I believe he won’t not take sports with kids’ gloves but he must be deliberate in his plans for sports and get people that understand sports to take charge,” Tayo advised. “Sports is something most youths are involved and there must be deliberate efforts to ensure that this sector is given the needed attention.” Former Lagos State Sports Commission (LSSC) Executive Chairman, Kweku Tandoh, said the take-off for the President-elect should be the restructuring of the country’s sports architect. He offered: “With regards to the sports sector, a good starting point is the National Sports Industry Policy. However, we need to restructure our sports architecture in such a way as to ensure it supports the implementation of the Sports Industry Policy. “In that regard, there is a need to bring back the National Sports Commission as a matter of urgency. It must be noted however that the structure of the Sports Commission must be fit for purpose. It must be autonomous and report to the Presidency directly. “The Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC) must be made to take up its responsibilities and the national sports federations must also be revamped. Going forward, we must recognise that just like in other sectors, the sports sector must begin to apply strategic planning principles to each of the layers of the administrative setup; i.e. NSC, NOC, and sports federations. “The social and economic benefits of sports must be fully explored and exploited. Finally, there is a need for the setting up of the National Sports Trust Fund to support the NSC with regards to private sector involvement,” he added.