Prominent stakeholders in Nigeria’s creative industry have come together to discuss the proposed Creative Industries Development Bill (CIDB) and its potential to transform the Nigerian creative economy. The interactive sessions between creative gurus and the presidency seek to enhance the industry through a well-designed action plan centered on putting the creatives “FIRST”: Funding, Incentives, Research, Skills, and Training. Speaking at one of the meetings, the CIDB Stakeholders Engagement Sub-Committee Lead, Obi Asika described the bill as a whole of government and whole of nation approach with key stakeholders continuously engaged. “The continuing stakeholder engagement sessions aim to provide an opportunity for industry professionals to engage with the CIDB team, understand the significance and benefits of the bill, and provide valuable insights to make it fit-for-purpose and shape the future of the creative industries in Nigeria. “The bill seeks to create a transparent, lean, and modern commission to serve as a one-stop-shop for the creative industries. When passed into law, the CIDB becomes the Creative Industries Development Act (CIDA),” he said. On his part, the Investment Banker and the CIDB Finance Sub-Committee Lead, Chukuka Chukuma, emphasized the importance of leaving no one behind and the need to enable and support the sector. He explained that the bill is not intended to replace existing agencies but to act in the best interests of the creative industries, and drive collaboration. He noted that the private sector, development finance institutions, and global multilaterals all seek a clear line of sight into the sector, and the CIDB will meet their expectations and provide a one-stop-shop that facilitates seamless foreign direct investments. The industry stakeholders commended the team and the efforts of the Minister of Information and Culture in promoting the kind of collaborative environment that led to the development of this laudable bill. Other members of the CIDB Presidential Advisory team–including Davidson Oturu, Ojoma Ochai, Tonye Faloughi-Ekezie, Baba Agba, Enyi Omeruah, Femi Odugbemi, Ijeoma Onah, Moses Babatope, Titilayo Adebola, Eghosa Imasuen, Sam Onyemelukwe, Oswald Osaretin Guobadia, and Chichi Nwoko–were present to give further insights into the details of the CIDB.