Ahead of Saturday’s governorship and House of Assembly elections, members of the Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) are yet to sheathe their swords and pledge to work together. The crisis in the Tony Okocha-led faction of the APC Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) and the Augustine Nwokocha-led Tinubu/Shettima Independent campaign Council (ICC) is tearing the party apart. ROSEMARY NWISI reports The outstanding performance of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the recent presidential election in Rivers State and the country at large ought to have put to rest the internal crisis that has bedevilled the party in the last five years. But, that is not the case. Ahead of Saturday’s governorship and House of Assembly elections, members are yet to sheathe their swords and pledge to work together. The crisis in the Tony Okocha-led faction of the APC Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) and the Augustine Nwokocha-led Tinubu/Shettima Independent campaign Council (ICC) is tearing the party apart. The leadership of the two groups worked together to achieve success ahead of the presidential election in the South-south state. They had pulled out from the main PCC/ICC faction led by Tonye Cole who is the party’s governorship candidate, after accusing him and other members loyal to the former Transportation Minister, Chibuike Amaechi of not convening any PCC/ICC meeting since its inauguration in last December and less than three weeks to the party’s presidential rally in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. Cole and his group were equally accused of not being interested in the victory of Asiwaju and Shettima in the polls, hence they were not canvassing for votes for them. This led to the formation of “Concerned APC PCC/ICC group by Okocha and other PCC members who believed that it was a deliberate ploy by Cole and others to stall Asiwaju’s victory in the election in the state and took it upon themselves to change the alleged plans. The group chose Okocha to lead the team, and today the expected victory, as their candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is now president-elect. However, trouble began when last week, Okocha in a statement recognised and hailed the contributions of Governor Nyesom Wike in financial and human resources contributions, which he believed led to Asiwaju’s victory in Rivers State and boasted his chances of winning in general. Okocha in the statement thanked Wike for changing the hitherto poor election results APC is known for in the state over the years and pushed the party to victory after years of “abysmal” performances in elections. He pledged that the group would reciprocate the governor’s kindness by throwing their weight behind the PDP governorship candidate, rather than the APC candidate in Saturday’s election. However, the decision did not go down well with Nwokocha, who is the APC ICC coordinator and other officers of the Okocha breakaway APC PCC/ICC, who quickly countered the position in another statement over the weekend, declaring that Okocha spoke for himself and not for the PCC/ICC in a statement he issued. The counter-statement was signed by Nwokocha and two other executives of the Okocha faction of the PCC. They attributed Asiwaju’s victory in the state to his outstanding records as an astute politician, his sterling achievements as governor of Lagos State and his acceptance by Rivers people, as well as contributions by several groups and individuals who worked for the victory. They said it has nothing to do with  Wike’s efforts as claimed by Okocha. In the statement, Nwokocha urged voters in Rivers State to reject Okocha and the candidate he was trying to foist on the people. Rather, he added that Rivers people should vote for the candidate of their choice because the APC PCC/ICC is not in agreement with him (Okocha) on the choice. The former commissioner for power also denied the claim that Wike donated a huge amount of money to APC PCC/ICC which helped in delivering the party presidential candidate in the state. Nwokocha said even if the governor made such donations, the gesture is not enough justification for the Rivers APC to endorse the PDP governorship candidate because “the money is part of Rivers State commonwealth and not Wike’s wealth. As a result, he said credit should go to Rivers people and not Wike. In a swift reply, Okocha declared himself the leader of APC in Rivers State, saying that Nwokocha and the other two officers who signed the counter statement are members of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). He said they knew about it all along but decided to cover them up in the overall interest of peace and harmony in the APC ahead of the presidential election. Okocha warned them to concentrate on their party and stop all forms of meddlesomeness in APC affairs forthwith. In the statement, the South-south zonal coordinator of the coalition of support groups said: “Knowing the tendencies that made up the PCC/ICC, our leader, a core democrat announced that we all made contributions as usual to the states to adopt the PDP candidate in the forthcoming governorship election. What was read out was a unanimous decision of the concerned PCC/ICC members who were present at the meeting. Unfortunately, Austin Nwokocha, Ineye Jack and King Wenenda Wonukwuru were conspicuously absent in that session without prior notice. “Reading their rebuttal to our decision as contained in the stated text of the press conference, has forced us to reflect deeply about their fidelity to Tinubu/Shettima’s presidency. Our findings have revealed that the three who signed the statement are senior members of the SDP in Rivers State. Therefore, it is surprising that they kicked against the collective decision.” However, reacting to the claim by Okocha that he is now the leader of the APC in the state, the party spokesman, Darlington Nwuju, dismissed the claims, and insisted that Okocha is not an APC member, but just a member of Asiwaju Presidential Campaign support group. Nwuju added that when the chips are down, everything will be exposed, and everybody will know where he belongs. To justify his claim that he is the leader of the party, Okocha noted that he rose to that position after its former occupant, Amaechi failed to support Asiwaju in the recent polls and did not also vote for him, but rather chose to vote for PDP candidate, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, which led to Tinubu and the APC losing the election in his (Amaechi’s) polling unit in Ubima, Ikwerre Council area, while he (Okocha) delivered his unit to the APC and Tinubu.