Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello has hailed the people  for their demonstration of unity, courage and resilience during the conduct of the  Presidential and National Assembly elections held across the state. Bello,  hailing the people stated that the peaceful and orderly conduct of the people and the successful completion of the elections is a strong indication that the citizens were committed to the ideals of democracy and the rule of law. The Governor  also praised the security agencies and the electoral officials for their commitment to a peaceful and transparent electoral process. “I am happy to commend the citizens of Kogi State, security agencies, and electoral officials of our nation for their commitment to a peaceful electoral process. The orderly and peaceful manner in which the elections were conducted is a testament to the strength of our democracy and the resilience of our people across the state. The successful completion of the elections is a strong indication that our citizens are committed to the ideals of democracy and the rule of law. I am also grateful for the efforts of the security agencies in ensuring the safety of the citizens before and during the electoral process. Praising the electorate  for the overwhelming votes given to the candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Presidential and National Assembly elections, Bello said  such commitment was a strong indication that the citizens always stand by the ruling party in the state, the All Progressives Congress. “I am confident that the successful completion of the elections and the overwhelming votes delivered to our candidates will usher in a new era of peace and prosperity for our nation. I urge all citizens to continue to uphold the values of democracy and to work together for the betterment of our nation. I charge you all to remain peaceful, embrace one another and rejoice together”. In the just-concluded elections as announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the presidential candidate of the APC Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu polled  240, 751 votes to defeat his closest rival Atiku Abubakar, who scored  145,104 votes. The INEC also declared the three senatorial candidates of the APC winners of the elections and returned elected. Senator Isah Jibrin Echecho of Kogi East garnered  108,777 votes ahead of his closest rival, Victor Adoji of the PDP who  got  81,662.   Abubakar Ohere of Kogi West polled 52,132 to defeat Natasha Akpoti -Uduagha of the PDP who scored  51,763 votes while Hon Sunday Karimi of Kogi West scored  70,184 votes against  T J Yusuf of the PDP who, took  51,964 votes. the APC  also won six  of nine Federal House of Representatives seats with two Federal Constituency elections declared inconclusive by the INEC. Thanking the people for the victory, he urged members of the public to be magnanimous in victory as they celebrate and assured that Asiwaju’s victory will revolutionize Kogi industrial sector and revamp the moribund iron and Steel industry in Ajaokuta. he said the people have played their roles in partaking in vertical representatives process which will enable them to sanction vertical accountability from elected representatives. “Once again, I thank the citizens, security agencies, and electoral officials for their commitment to a peaceful electoral process”, the Governor said.