•It is paradoxical that terrorised people could still negotiate with terrorists to allow them vote Nigeria might have  a political class that is not very famous for caring for the people, given the socio-economic situation that Nigerians have faced over the years. To have a population of 133 million Nigerians living under multi-dimensional poverty in 2023 is an eloquent testimony to the dire straits the people are in. However, despite the inconveniences, the average Nigerian still has hope in the democratic system of government. As Nigeria prepared for the much awaited 2023 general elections, the people were all prepared to use their votes to speak. They started by collecting or dusting their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs). The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) reported that more than 90 million Nigerians registered to vote and more than 87 million eligible voters collected their PVCs, which in a way is a ticket to vote. So, on the part of the electorate, most of them took the necessary steps to qualify them to vote, thereby having a say in who governs them from the state to the federal levels. For the people of Birnin-Gwari community in Kaduna State, their sense of citizenship and patriotism inspired their negotiating with terrorist gangs that have terrorised their communities  in the last few years. Most of them have lost their farm lands, most of them have lost their relations, some have been maimed or even killed.  At some point, there were reports that the terror gangs demanded payments from the largely agrarian community for them to farm on their lands. Some were even forced to work for the terrorists as slave labourers just to be spared from either being kidnapped or killed. In what we see as government’s failure in its fundamental duty to the citizens, that of caring for the welfare of the people and protection of their property, the people of Birnin-Gwari, having been inundated with threats of no election in their communities by the criminal gangs had to negotiate with them so that they (the terrorists) could allow them to vote during the 2023 elections.  Chairman of Birnin-Gwari Emirate Progressive Union (BEPU), said that their  11 political wards  had been facing terrorist attacks but they are determined to exercise their civic responsibility on election days. The security challenges they had faced have affected all sectors of their lives, and displaced about 50,000 of them. We see their move as not just a survivalist strategy but also as a vote of no confidence in the country’s security agencies and the various tiers of governments. This must be a wakeup call to our security agencies and governments to expand the levers of protection to the people around the country who have been suffering security challenges for a very long time. We find it revealing and ironic that a community can decide to go into negotiations with terrorists. What this means is that the terrorists are identifiable and a communication channel can be opened. It is also an open secret that these bandits have citizens who supply them ammunition and other survivalist items like food and groceries. There had also been arrests of some syndicates that traffic women of easy virtue to them. If truly our security agencies are serious, these transactions can provide baits and clues for the arrest and prosecution of these outlaws terrorising law-abiding citizens. The people of Birnin-Gwari must be commended not because their choice of action is morally or legally right but for still showing loyalty to a nation that seems to have let them down over the years. They still seem to have hope in the system and believe that their civic responsibility of voting can usher in a government they feel can make their lives better. The paradox here is very poignant. Even though they have cause to be defiant, they have chosen to negotiate with their enemies so that they can choose leaders they believe can offer them what they presently lack. Their choice, illegal or immoral as it might appear, shows an unusual sense of hope and belief in a system that might have been unfair to them. It is the audacity of hope.