Nigerian singer Habeeb Okikiola Badmus aka Portable has been slammed with a lawsuit to the tune of N17 million over his failure to travel to the U.S. for a scheduled concert. The lawsuit was instituted by Musibau Olawale Babalola, a US based music promoter and Chief Executive of Fathia Entertainment LLC. According to Babalola, Portable entered into an agreement with the promotion company to perform in, at least, 10 cities in North America. Babalola also noted that both parties agreed that the promotion company would procure American visas and work permits for Portable and his crew members. To this end, Babalola said he fulfilled his own part of the contractual agreement as he engaged the services of an American Attorney and paid the sum of $12,000 to execute the permits in consonance with US immigration laws. He said, further, that an additional $3,950 statutory fee for USCIS (US Citizenship and Immigration Services) work permit on behalf of Portable. Babalola also alleged that the sums of $2,500, N3.4 million and N1 million were paid to Portable as his fees while he was expected to attend a visa interview at America Embassy in Nigeria. The show promoter also alleged further that Portable was denied a travelling visa to proceed on the scheduled journey to the United States because of his unprofessional conduct at the interview session. It was further gathered that after the visa denial, Babalola and Portable agreed that the singer will refund all the expenses incurred by the music promoter. Both parties agreed that Portable will refund N8 million to which the ‘Zazu Zeh’ singer pleaded to refund in five instalments. Portable allegedly made the first instalment of N2 million and reneged on his promise to pay the balance. According to Babalola, all entreaties to recover the balance from Portable have proved abortive, hence, the reason his company resorted to legal action. After slamming Portable with a lawsuit and seeking a refund of $29,890 and N3.4 million, the singer’s lawyers denied owing Babalola’s firm the sum of $29,890, but admitted owing the sum of N8 million from which N2 million has been paid.