Anything that isn’t good is bad. Indeed, the Flying Eagles players hoisting the country’s green-white-green shirts are certainly not the best crop of U-20 players available to national team coaches who aren’t thinking through their pockets. I’ve nothing wrong with picking the 23-man squad from a particular area or region of the country. They must represent our best arising from credible screening exercises which should be fair to every child. These players presently in Cairo belong to agents and club scouts raising the poser of how Nigeria plays professional or football should I say organise football at that level around the country. Any endorsement of the group of players and coaches presently in Cairo to represent Nigeria at the World Cup proper in Indonesia is the death knell of the game in the 21st Century. Nigeria would have once again lost a whole generation of players whose spaces are being filled with players who shouldn’t wear the country’s colours if we have a football culture worthy of emulation. This is one of the reasons players such as Obafemi Martins emerged due to his exploits with Inter Milan FC of Italy and not through any Nigerian club. Yet, he played the game on the dusty streets and playgrounds abound in Lagos. What a shame. The coaches who are with the Flying Eagles cannot give what they don’t have. So anyone expecting miracles from them in Indonesia should be told that the World Cup at any level is the podium to celebrate excellence and not mediocrity which is what this group would bring to the country at the U-20 World Cup later in the year. The argument that the time is too close to the junior Mundial is weak because those who would play for the serious-minded football nations would be playing with boys on the fringes of the senior teams over the last two years. If anyone allows these coaches to pick those to represent us in Indonesia, we would have wasted four years that other countries would use to groom their squads for the 2024 and 2028 Olympic Games. In other football nations, their cadet teams graduate through the FIFA age-grade competitions to stardom. Nigeria picks coaches based on sentiments, not on their coaching track records, to handle our teams. They gather players at every age grade who cannot form the nucleus of other national teams, going forward. This is the essence of all FIFA age-grade competitions – growth – not arrested development which has been permanently enshrined in Nigeria’s soccer developmental plans. Doesn’t hurt our administrators that lads such as Chrisantus Macaulay, the best player in the 2007 U-17 World Cup melted like ice cream placed on table underneath the scorching sun when Toni Kroos who played for Germany in the same competition reached the zenith of his game? Nigeria has a mandatory three matches at the group stage of the U-20 World Cup which shouldn’t be prosecuted by half-bakes on the altar of continuity or that we don’t want to rock the boat. If we truly want good representation in Indonesia, we must disband the entire squad and sack the coaches. Coaching is about hiring and firing. A coach is as good as his last game. The Flying Eagles coach in Egypt is bereft of new ideas and his utterances bring shame to the country. Our domestic coaches don’t always pick our best players. It is the major reason many young boys sneak out of the country for greener pastures. Word is rife that a certain player (name withheld)who wasn’t part of the preparations for this tournament but he is in the squad. Like a sore thumb, he was fielded in Nigeria’s first game against the Senegalese where he was shown a red card. He again was fielded in the semi-final game against the Gambia, where he missed a penalty kick. Should such a boy make the team to Indonesia? Indeed, the coach changed the squad he used to win the WAFU Cup with as many as 13 boys. Which good coach changes a winning squad? Read my lips, please. This is what the Flying Eagles coach told the world press after Nigeria was beaten 1-0 by the Gambia in the first semi-finals. According to the coach: “We lost stupidly, we were naive from the start. We failed to take our chances and we also missed the penalty in the 86th minute of the game. I am very frustrated because we had the team go all the way. Football is cruel. “We didn’t measure up. I congratulate The Gambia for winning,” he added. My dear Flying Eagles coach, who picked the players? By your post-match utterances, you have shown yourself the team’s exit door. If you couldn’t use the last two years to assemble players Nigerians would be proud of, is it this short period you would use to decipher your folly? Who does that? Super Eagles manager Jose Peseiro is shopping for players to fill the void created by our injured players and those who are recuperating. He isn’t talking about the Flying Eagles even if the opposition is the Wild Dogs of Guinea Bissau as they are known. The Flying Eagles players representing us in Cairo at the U-20 competition play like robots. They are stiff and very unimaginative and they don’t play like a team trained by coaches with proficient knowledge of the game. You can always predict with confidence what they would do with the ball. Previous Flying Eagles players have played the game with flair. One thing which was always in the past squads was the dribbling wizardry, and intelligent displays, they played with zest and were a delight to watch. Not these ones in Egypt whose tardy performance lures one to sleep whilst watching them. These Flying Eagles have failed to improve their displays with every game even against countries that Nigeria had previously beaten by as many as nine goals. It shows growth on the part of those beaten countries over time. For us, the stunted growth continues.  It speaks to their true ages. Veteran sports journalist, Mitchell Obi captured the Flying Eagles miserable display in Egypt thus: ”As a group or individuals these Flying Eagles hardly inspire and like the Super Falcons, both going to the World Cups. There must be a drastic reengineering of the technical and playing crew. We are far from our minimum standard and expectation of yore and how it pains to think that the once despised minnows have caught up with us., interestingly in Flying colours..cry my beloved Nigerian game. !!” The problem with assembling any national team starts with the NFF’s arbitrary choice of coaches who are eager to be appointed knowing that the job would serve as their ATM. These coaches dare not ask for contracts to be signed with the NFF nor do we get to know how much they are entitled to monthly. It doesn’t matter if such coaches don’t get paid for three years for as long as they remain on the job. How would hungry and angry coaches deliver any qualitative service? The end result is a shoddy job with the teams. And with the federation yet to inaugurate their sub-committees, no form of crosscheck on the list of players taken for such critical competitions was done to weed out unqualified players. The choice is ours to either sack the coaches and disband the team or we allow them stay to further destroy the next generation of players. Each time we do well in major tournaments such as the World Cup, foreign clubs send their scouts to Nigeria to shop for raw talents who would come very cheap.