One of the most critical fallouts of the protracted economic crisis which the country has been battling over the last two decades is the high rate of unemployment, particularly among the country’s  teeming youths. Indeed, the substantial number of jobless persons among our citizenry is a key factor in the constant characterisation of Nigeria as one of the worst hit areas by poverty in the world. The high unemployment level is, in turn, substantially contributory to the various social ills such as kidnapping, drug addiction, prostitution, among others, that plague the society since, as it is often said, an idle mind is the devil’s workshop. Against this background, the National Directorate of Employment (NDE), one of the agencies established to facilitate and create job opportunities for Nigerians, is no doubt one of the most critical organisations that has an important role to play in the recovery of the economy through the stimulation of significant number of new jobs. It is thus heartwarming that the Director-General of the NDE, Mallam Abubakar Nuhu-Fikpo, recently spoke to the media about ongoing efforts to rejuvenate the agency to deliver more effectively on its mandate. According to him, the NDE has restructured and re-launched its website to enable it provide in-depth information of its activities and the services, as well as opportunities it provides to the generality of the public. Reiterating the agency’s renewed commitment to confronting the menace of unemployment headlong, the DG said the site, www.nde.gov.ng, is designed to enable Nigerians access its programmes, products and schemes that will be of benefit to, and meet the needs of citizens in quest of employment. Operating under the aegis of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, the NDE has as its mandate, among several others, designing and implementing programmes to address the problem of massive unemployment, articulating policies aimed at developing work programmes with labour intensive potential and maintaining a data bank on employment and vacancies, with a view to providing information on job vacancies to employment seekers, in collaboration with other government agencies. Other aspects of the agency’s mandate include promoting rural employment programmes to cater for unemployed Nigerians who are interested in agricultural activities, facilitate access to credit for graduates and non-graduates interested in going into small businesses, as well as undertake vocational skills programme, with a spectrum of 48 trades from which prospective participants are able to choose. The NDE is expected to plan for jobs for elderly, retired Nigerians who are still productive, in addition to catering for the employment needs of citizens, irrespective of their educational background. The relaunching of NDE’s website to better communicate its policies and programmes to the people is most timely because most people are unaware of the various services it can render. However, it must go beyond this to communicate its messages through radio and television, in addition to online channels, to reach more of its target audiences. Again, given the critical importance of its mandate, the NDE is one agency that must be given priority in funding by the Federal Government, even in the face of the fiscal crisis facing the country. The agency’s leadership must also consider more efficient ways of linking different categories of jobless persons to available vacancies in the job market. It should be able to utilise the fact that it reportedly has offices in the 774 local government areas of the country to link up with unemployed persons at the grassroots who need its services.  There is no reason why the laws establishing the NDE cannot be modified and strengthened to enable it raise funds from the private sector in a way similar to the way Lagos State Employment Trust Fund operates, in conjunction with the private sector. It is important to stress, however, that how far the NDE can go in terms of job creation will depend on how well the economy is doing. So, the Federal Government has a responsibility to grow the economy in order to facilitate the assignments of agencies like the NDE.