The Synagogue Church Of All Nations (SCOAN) has opened its first Branch in Nigeria in Ondo, the home State of its late founder, Prophet TB Joshua. The multimillion edifice is sited in Akure, the Ondo State capital along Ilesha-Owo Express Way opposite NNPC Mega Station. According to a statement from the church, the sprawling structure, standing on over five hectares of land, is capable of accommodating over 6,000 worshippers with its  overflow canopies. Ondo Governor Rotimi Akeredolu was represented at the inauguration of the branch by his Deputy Lucky Ayedatiwa. He described the new SCOAN branch in Akure as “a giant stride of the church under the leadership of Pastor Evelyn Joshua with tremendous grace for the upliftment of the people of Ondo State in particular who will benefit more of God’s blessings, as people from this environment won’t have to be travelling to Lagos for worship because the spirit of God is one and is here”. He commended the vision of the SCOAN and congratulated Mrs Joshua for her perseverance in holding forth and reinforcing  the legacy of the founder in keeping the saints together after the passing of the founder, Prophet Joshua. He also commended SCOAN  members world over for  their laudable efforts and commitment in opening the branch in Ondo. According to the Deputy Governor, the importance of church could not be overemphasized in individual life and nation building. “The moral character mouldings, love, peace and unity preached by the church are cardinal principles of true nation building” he stated adding that “with this new branch here many lives will be turned around”. Mrs  Joshua said the opening of Akure branch was out of the divine command to expand for the fulfillment of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ’s mission on earth. “We are doing this today by God’s authority and permission of the Holy Spirit to meet the expanding dream of the Ministry by spreading Christ’s message and evangelism” she stated, adding that “Our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ has further brought salvation, healing, deliverance and God’s abundant blessings to your domains and it has come to stay with regular church activities”. She expressed gratitude to members and partners all over the world for their steadfastness and efforts for the glory of God. Other prominent personalities in attendance  included Oba Isa Olanipekun, the Zaki of Arigidi Akoko; Deji of Akure Oba Aladetoyinbo, represented by a Senior High Chief, SHC Anthony Falowo; Dr. Franklyn Akakuru Dabrinze, Izoagba ancient kingdom in Imo State and a host of others from different walks of life.