A 42-year-old woman, Victoria Enwerem, has been jailed for allegedly stealing five children between ages of 9, 7, 3, 10 and 8 years old in Onitsha, Anambra State. Enwerem was arraigned before Children, Sexual and Gender-Based Violence Court in Awka, Anambra State over a-3 count charge of conspiracy to steal children; fraudulently enticing away and habouring children and forcefully isolating the children from lawful possession of their parents. The offences are punishable under Criminal Code, Laws of Anambra State of Nigeria, 1991, and Violence Against Persons (Prohibition and Protection) Laws of Anambra State, 2017 respectively. Delivering judgement on the case, Presiding Chief Magistrate, Genevieve Osakwe said the accused was found guilty of the three charges brought against her. She slammed the defendan with 4 years imprisonment in count 1; 8 years imprisonment in count 2; and a term of 6 months imprisonment in count 3, declaring all sentences would run concurrently, without option of fine. “Based on oral testimonies of the defendant herself and submissions of the plaintiff witnesses, as well as, other materials placed before the Court, in respect of the case; there are overwhelming pieces of evidence against the defendant, and the prosecutor had proved his case beyond reasonable doubts,” she said. According to Police prosecutor in the charge, Victoria Enwerem (Anosike) in September 2022, conspired with one Oluchi Ahamefula, now at large, to steal children at popular MCC Junction, Onitsha, with a view to moving the children to unknown destination. He said luck however ran out on her as she was caught by some police officers on stop and search operation at Oraifite in Ekwusigo Local Government Area of the State. “She was granted bail but jumped bail and was later tracked and apprehended at a remote part of Ebonyi State, in possession of two other underaged kids who she allegedly stole from their parents.  “It was later discovered that she had continued her business of stealing children, while hiding in the State,” he said. The accused, while being arraigned a second time, told the Court that her defence Counsel, one C. D. Nwaka-Ohuoha, Esq, deceived her, collected an undisclosed amount of money from her and informed her to stop going to Court, with promise that she would scuttle the case pending in Court and ensured she would never go to prison. Visibly angry presiding Magistrate expressed sadness over defense Counsel’s deceptive attitude, describing it as unprofessional legal practice. She commended Police for their doggedness and commitment, especially in tracking and recapturing the accused to face her trials. She further urged Women and Social Welfare Ministry, Awka, to urgently write to its counterpart in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, to ensure the Orphanage allegedly being managed by the accused was closed down.  Reacting, Anambra Women and Social Welfare Commissioner, Ify Obinabo expressed joy over speedy trial of the case, assuring her ministry’s collaboration with her Portharcourt counterpart to ensure the concerned orphanage was sealed to save unsuspecting members of the public.