Telecom operators yesterday said they have started the implementation of harmonised short codes across networks pursuant to a regulatory modernisation initiative of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC).  Acting under the aegis of Association of Licensed Telecoms Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), the operators said the harmonisation of short codes is aimed at implementing a streamlined process for common short codes across the industry, by making life easier for Nigerians through the memorisation of single codes, for various services across networks as well as providing a cohesive regulatory framework that is consistent with global best practices. “Following the directive from NCC, the Association hereby informs the general public that the network operators have begun implementing the short codes, working closely with the NCC. The Commission has provided adequate time for subscribers to get used to this new development. We are confident this will enhance customer experience across networks,” ALTON stated in a statement signed by Gbenga Adebayo and Gbolahan Awonuga, Chairman and Head, Operations. During migration, which is to be concluded by May 17, 2023 old and new common codes will run concurrently, after which the old codes will cease to operate. The proposed harmonised shortcodes are: Call Center/Help Desk – 300, Voice Mail Deposit – 301, Voice Mail Retrieval -302, Borrow Services – 303, STOP Services – 304, Check Balance – 310, Credit Recharge – 311 and Data Plan – 312 Others are Share Services – 321, Data Plan Balance – 323, Verification of SIM Registration/ NIN – SIM Linkage – 996 and Porting Services (MNP) – 2442. The harmonisation of short codes entails making the common short codes utilised by customers to be uniform across networks. For instance, the code for recharging a line can be used across mobile networks for the same function. There is no code to activate them while the short codes will run concurrently for one year after which the old codes will become inactive, ALTON explained.