The first set of long awaited 2023 general elections (presidential and national assembly) in Nigeria has come and gone. The candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC) Bola Ahmed Tinubu emerged the President-elect. However, the national assembly elections seem to have changed the colour of the yet to be inaugurated tenth assembly. The hitherto dominant political parties All Progressive Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party now have two other parties, the NNPP and Labour Party to contend with. The Roundtable Conversation had on the run up to the elections maintained that even though the center is very important and the presidency seems to be the apogee of political aspirations of the average politician, the legislative arm of government seems not to attract a commensurate attention from the people even when it is one of the important arms of a democratic government. It is a mark of the slow development of the Nigerian democracy that the executive seems to overshadow the legislature and the judiciary and they are often treated as less important in the democratic system. This seems to be one of the effects of the long period of military interruptions of democracy in the country. It is worthy of note that the first casualty whenever the military intervenes is always the legislative arm and they are always the first to be suspended and military decrees rolled out  by the coupists. The political philosophers like Baron de Montesquieu that fashioned the arms of government in a democracy understand the human nature and how absolute power corrupts absolutely. The idea of checks and balances is very important in deepening democracy and sustaining its values. In developed democracies, the legislative arm does not kowtow to the executive unlike what obtains in a democracy like Nigeria. A close observation of the Nigerian democracy since 1999 shows that in real terms, the legislature at both federal and state levels appear to subsume their power under the executive who in turn often assumes imperial powers. To some levels, some legislators seem ignorant of their roles in a democracy and as such often assume that they owe allegiance to the executive. In a young democracy with almost zero political ideology with no structured financial discipline, it is very easy for those who pay the piper to dictate the tune. In a country with very weak political party structures, the independence of institutions or even the arms of government is very important. It is therefore not surprising that the senate for instance in the Nigerian political system seems to be partly peopled  by the political elite who had either been governors of their states, ministers, political party chairmen or just some other highly placed political players. Since the days of the Chuba Okadigbos, the Jibrin Aminus, the David Marks and many others who came from outside the executive arm of government, the Nigerian Senate has had quite a number of ex-governors. It is interesting to note that those ex-governors that have occupied their constituency seats at the Nigerian senate have not really been outstanding in any way. In contrast, they have been as ordinary and as unproductive as a people who do not really understand what their duties are. While the Roundtable Conversation understands that democracy takes time to mature, it is equally true that the political class seems not to fully understand  the real duties of the different arms of government. The executive arm often displays authoritarianism while the legislative arms often abdicate its duties. Sometimes there are the erroneous conclusions to that they do so to show party loyalty or to be in line with democratic norms. Nothing can be further from the truth. The practice of democracy must be on the side of the people always.  This is because democracy is the government of the people by the people and for the people. The just concluded national assembly elections in Nigeria has in a way taught most Nigerians who had hitherto feigned ignorance of the power of the people that truly, the power belongs to the people. In the past, most state governors just seamlessly transited to the senate from the government houses whether they performed well during their tenure or not. Most of them used the levers of authority to manipulate the party primaries to favour themselves. They in turn coerce the populace or use the system to manipulate election results. However, the recent election has seen the people showing their power at the ballots. As many as seven governors failed in their bid to be elected by their senatorial districts to represent them at the tenth national assembly. Never in the history of Nigeria’s democracy since 1999 has as many as seven incumbent governors lost their bid to become senators at the expiration of their eight-year tenures. The governors of Enugu state, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of the PDP, Ben Ayade of Cross River state of the APC, the Plateau state governor Solomon Lalong of the APC, governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba state of the PDP, the Abia state Okezie Ikpeazu of the PDP, Benue state’s Samuel Ortom of the PDP and APC’s governor Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi state all lost elections. So despite the criticisms and shortcomings of the just concluded elections, there is progress. Now Nigerians can through the polls tell candidates who they want. The rejection of these governors by the electorate makes a loud statement about the little progress of the Nigerian democracy. Before now, incumbent governors had too much powers, they more or less handpicked their successors, candidates for the legislative houses at both state and federal levels. The introduction of of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) and the Labour (LP) also introduced new dynamics to Nigeria’s political party system. The  APC and PDP that had had the field since 1999 in different forms (the APC is a product of a merger of about four other political parties, AC, ANPP, CPC, and a section of APGA). In the 2023 elections, voters in some sections of the country choose candidates of the new kids on the bloc. The failure of the incumbent governors to win their senatorial bids seems like a referendum on their tenures as governors. If their closest constituency, their senatorial districts can deny them the opportunity to go to the hallowed chambers of the national assembly as their representatives, it means a vote of no confidence on them after having an eight year window to prove their mettle to the people. Not only did most of them fail in their senatorial bids, their ‘hand-picked’ surrogates for other elections in some cases suffered collateral damage  by failing to be elected on the platform of their governors’ political parties. Democracy is a journey and even developed democracies like the United States still experience challenges every now and then. The only difference is that they have strong institutions that remove the burden from individuals. The fact that the January 6 metaphor in the United States was quelled and is now being legally investigated is a sign that there are no fool-proof measures that are final. The Nigerian democracy is developing and the people themselves must be patient with the system. The lessons from the failure of these governors and even some top legislators like Ndudi Elumelu, the Minority Leader at the House of Representatives, Senator Uche Ekwunife, Senator Bala Ibn Na’Allah, Nkeiruka Onyejeocha and others to retain their legislative positions in the National Assembly speaks to the fact that the people are watching and feeling the impact or lack of same of politicians. Nigeria’s democracy is like all democracies growing with each electoral cycle, Nigerians must be patient and realize that democracy is not bought off the shelf but worked on by the people through institutional reforms. There are no perfect systems but every nation tries to build strong institutions that can outlive everyone. Democratic institutions continue to undergo growth in ways that generations would look back and credit even those that have passed with contributions to the system. The basic fact is that Nigerians are the ones that can shape the democracy they practice. If it is a government of the people for the people and by the people, it then follows that the people have to determine, through institutions to keep learning and correcting the imperfections. The coming governorship and house of assembly elections must be handled by both the government agencies like the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the security agencies, the political parties and the people in ways that would give the best outcome. The Kenyans recently had their elections and given what they had gone through in their past two elections during the election of their former President Uhuru Kenyatta, the system has grown and their democracy has grown as well. With a constitutional review in 2010 that made it illegal for any gender to occupy more than two third of all elective positions it was possible for seven women to be elected as governors over two election cycles. That is growth. Nigeria must grow her democracy too despite the challenges. Congratulations to all winners. The dialogue continues…