The Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) has raised an alarm over the increasing dearth of semi-skilled labor in the Nigerian industrial sector. The Chamber warned of the need to nip the situation in the bud “to avoid a situation where Nigeria will begin to import semi-skilled laborers from neighboring countries.” NACCIMA National President Ide John C. Udeagbala, who made this known at a press briefing in Lagos, attributed the increasing dearth of semi-skilled labor to Nigeria’s declining technical institutions/education. He, therefore, reiterated NACCIMA’s earlier suggestion to the government to establish technical/vocational training centres in major industries in Nigeria for the training of semi-skilled labor and also ensure their certification process. Udeagbala also urged the government to work out the process of funding the industrial training centres through the ministry of education via the Education Trust Fund, which is primarily funded by the Organised Private Sector (OPS). The NACCIMA president further called on the government to engage with the African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) and the German Agency for Cooperation (GIZ) that have jointly established the AFREXIM Vocational Training Centre in Ogun State. He said the AFREXIM Vocational Training Centre in Ogun State partners with the government and the private sector for the certification of semi-skilled labour in the country. Udeagbala called on the government, both at national and state levels, to urgently call for a dialogue with the Organised Private Sector of Nigeria (OPSN) and other stakeholders to find immediate and long-lasting solutions to what he described as the “unemployment time-bomb.” “No stone should be left unturned in addressing this economic challenge of rising unemployment and the urgency of addressing this issue cannot be overemphasized,” he stated, pointing out that Nigeria’s increasing unemployment rate has become very worrisome. Udeagbala, lamented, for instance, that the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) indicated that over 60 per cent of the working-age in Nigeria are below 35 years of age and the unemployment rate among this class stands at about 60per cent. This is besides the figure for under-employment among the working class. “Experts have put the unemployment rate in Nigeria at approximately 40 per cent as at 2021 and this is extremely disturbing considering the social crisis that can result there from, as there has been no clear-cut government policy on employment generation since 2021 till date,” Udeagbala said. He further lamented that with more companies closing down and many more graduates joining the unemployment market, “we are highly worried that the nation is heading for the tipping point in its unemployment problems.”