Bamidele Faparusi, an engineer by training is the Managing Director/CEO of GreenPower Overseas Limited, a leading renewable energy service provider in Nigeria. In this interview with Daniel Adeleye, he speaks about how the company is helping Nigeria in its energy transition and challenges players face in the nation’s energy renewables sector. Excerpts: What is your assessment of Nigeria’s energy sector in terms of inputs and outcome generation? I can tell you for free that most companies operating within the energy subsectors like ours have promoted making energy accessible and affordable to everyone in Nigeria through the use of solar energy in the last 16 years. As of today, we have installed a total capacity of about 5MW of solar energy in Nigeria. Our turnkey services range from feasibility studies to design, procurement, installation and after-sales support. Our footprint is wide and cuts across different sectors and classes of customers. Clean energy is necessary for everyone, and we are active in this arena. GreenPower Overseas Ltd is based on professionalism and technical capability. We are engineers, not just business people looking to make money. We are out to proffer solutions to energy problems by focusing on technical quality across the entire value chain. Through our 16 years of experience, we know how to deal with upturns and downturns in the Nigerian market. We can do any business successfully within the confines of our sectors. How has steps local companies in Nigeria helped with energy transition? Many businesses in Nigeria are eager to transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy. However, due to space limitations to mount solar panels and economic constraints they cannot go completely green (Zet-Zero). The cost component for the energy storage in a PV system is high therefore we customised a hybrid solution, wherein; we combine gas and solar solutions to provide a clean system for our customers especially for high energy demand clients. Our gas system works during the night while our solar system takes its place during the day, thereby minimising the huge CAPEX on the energy storage.  We recommend this hybrid solution to commercial and industrial clients whose energy requirements are high. What work has the company done to support the local oil and gas sector? We worked with TotalEnergies as one of the first subcontractors on their transition to renewable energy in Nigeria. We have been providing power systems for all the ExxonMobil offshore platforms since 2009. We have also done projects for gas companies such as Nigerian Gas Company and Oando. For example, we designed and installed solar solutions for the de-sanding units at the Oando Iganmu Gas Plant facilities. Also, the federal government aims to increase access to energy in rural areas, and we support them by providing solar mini-grids. We are also trying to tap into the Nigeria-Morocco gas pipeline project by providing solar power solutions for their remote facilities. What has been the major challenge to bring new entrants into the Nigeria Electrification Project NEP? The Nigeria Electrification Project has stringent requirements that undermine new entrants in the sector. Many renewable energy companies may not have access to this world bank funds because the current programme requires companies to show proof of concepts and financial stability before gaining access to this programme. Let me advise that NEP should see how it can play down on some of these stringent criteria so more players can enter the programme. What plans does GreenPower Overseas have to grow its share of the market in Nigeria and in the Africa region? We plan to digitalise our solar business so that we can cement our position as the sector leader in Nigeria while expanding our regional footprint. We are developing a digital Platform designed to accelerate energy access to Low and Medium-income earners (Residential), small and medium scale businesses (Productive Use) through flexible and convenient payment plan and enhanced valuation of solar system as an asset suitable for buyback and access to credit facilities. We also want to become one of the major players in gas-to-power projects by being part of a consortium that develops IPP projects. We already have a lot of projects in the pipeline that we are working on. To achieve this growth, we are open to partnerships with international and local investors that are interested in fostering the penetration of clean energy in Africa.