A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Tein Jack-Rich has congratulated the President-elect, Bola Tinubu and Vice President-elect, Sen. Kashim Shettima, for winning last Saturday’s election. The businessman and philanthropist, in a statement on Saturday in Abuja, said Tinubu’s victory was well deserved. The candidate of APC was declared winner of the election by the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof Mahmood Yakubu. Tinubu polled 8.8 million votes to defeat his closest rivals – Atiku Abubakar of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Obi of LP and Rabiu Kwankwaso of the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP). Atiku polled 6,984,520; Obi garnered 6,101,533 votes while Kwankwaso polled 1,476,697. He enlisted the cooperation and support of all Nigerians including other candidates who contested the presidential election to join hands with the former Lagos State governor to build an egalitarian country that will work for all and sundry. According to him, “now is the time to build bridges for the good of our nation and not plot to tear it apart.” The statement said: “I write on behalf of my wife, Dr. Mrs. Elizabeth Jack-Rich, members of the Presidential Campaign Council from Rivers state and the entire APC family in Rivers State to felicitate with you and the Vice President-Elect over your well-deserved victory in the just concluded presidential election in Nigeria.” Read Also : ‘North West contributed highest votes to Tinubu’s victory’ Jack-Rich, who is the President/Founder of Belemaoil Producing Limited, an indigenous oil Exploration Company, expressed optimism that Tinubu and Shettima presidency will usher in a new dawn for Nigeria and promote inclusivity in governance for national good. The former APC presidential aspirant, who is the highest national ranking Rivers son in the APC PCC and doubles as the Deputy director of the Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) Fundraising Committee expressed confidence that Tinubu will preside over a peaceful and prosperous Nigeria given his enviable track record of hard work, devotion and dedication to duties. Ends****