The Vice Presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Datti Baba-Ahmed, has said the party would challenge the results of Saturday’s presidential election in court.  Baba-Ahmed alleged that the All Progressives Congress (APC) used irregularities and violated the Constitution to win the presidential election.  APC’s Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu was declared the winner of the election by the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof Yakubu Mahmood.  Tinubu polled 8.8 million votes to defeat his closest rivals – Atiku Abubakar of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Peter Obi of LP and Rabiu Kwankwaso of the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP). Atiku polled 6,984,520; Obi garnered 6,101,533 votes while Kwankwaso polled 1,476,697. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, in Abuja, the vice presidential candidate of the LP insisted Saturday’s election did not meet the requirements for a free and fair election.  The former senator reaffirmed the party’s commitment to acting in accordance with the law to pursue justice and urged the judiciary to demonstrate its independence when the case is brought before a court. Baba-Ahmed said he and Obi, would not be persuaded by any amount of pressure to preach against calm and peace and urged Nigerians to cast their votes en masse for the LP in the oncoming gubernatorial and state Houses of Assembly election. He said: “It is our position that the purported result didn’t meet the minimum criteria of a transparent, free and fair election in addition to the most condemnable attacks, voter intimidation, and suppression.  “Please be assured of our determination to fight the injustice that has been perpetuated on Nigerians through all legal and peaceful means. We employ you all to please remain peaceful and calm as our fight and determination for a new Nigeria is just beginning. We equally encourage you all to continue with the campaigns and vote massively for the Labour Party in the forthcoming governorship and state Houses of Assembly elections on 11 March. Our Principal, Mr Peter Obi, will in due course speak to you and indeed the nation. “No amount of questioning will ever get Peter Obi or myself or any agent of the Labour Party to preach anything besides peace and tranquility in Nigeria.  Responding to Senate President Ahmad Lawan, who said the Electoral Act 2022 did not provide for electronic transmission of election results as demanded by some Nigerians, he said: “The Senate President as far as we are concerned, contested for Presidency and now he is elected Senator by the verdict of the Supreme Court. You cannot contest two elections. It is on record he contested the presidency. Now he sits as Senate President to give us this kind of opinion. Such an irresponsible person must never be listened to.”