There are reports that hackers have transferred about N2.95 billion from the accounts of African fintech unicorn, Flutterwave. Flutterwave’s legal counsel, Albert Onimole, had earlier reported the case to the Deputy Commissioner of Police, State Criminal Intelligence Department, Panti, Yaba, Lagos. It was reported that the hack on Flutterwave’s accounts occurred about two weeks ago from February 13. It was said the money was initially transferred to 28 accounts in 63 transactions. While the incident was reported to the police on February 13, this year, with the list of accounts that had received the money, the police could not freeze the funds. According to Flutterwave, some commercial banks allowed the money to be moved to other accounts, widening the money trail. To investigate accounts holding the stolen funds across various financial institutions in Nigeria, S.A. Adedesin, Legal Officer, State CID, Panti, Yaba, Lagos, filed a suit in the Magistrate Court of Lagos (Yaba Magisterial District sitting at Yaba) to support Flutterwave’s claims. The suit is between the Commissioner of Police and the affected 28 commercial banks. According to reports, 107 accounts, including fifth beneficiaries of those accounts, are to be placed on lien/Post-No-Debit. Howevet, Flutterwave’s co-founder and Chief Executive, Olugbenga Agboola said: “Flutterwave has not been hacked”. According to him, “this is a typical user profile compromise by a user who did not activate the relevant security on their profile. Our transaction monitoring system detected it as it should and notified the user.” This implies that Flutterwave’s merchant account was hacked not the company’s. “During a routine check of our transaction monitoring system, we identified an unusual trend of transactions on some users’ profiles. Our team immediately launched a review (inline with our standard operating procedure), which revealed that some users who had not activated some of our recommended security settings might have been susceptible,” Yewande Akomolafe-Kalu, Head of Branding and Storytelling at Flutterwave, said in a statement. Akomolafe-Kalu said: “…no user lost any funds, and we take pride in the fact that our security measures were able to address the issue before any harm could be done to our users. We collaborate with other financial institutions and law enforcement agencies to keep our ecosystem safe and secure.” It should be recalled that in May 2022, an online gambling company, 86fb/86z alleged that “(Flutterwave) maliciously froze [its] funds and intends to take the funds as their own and extort [the company] by cooperating with the local police”. Flutterwave denied the allegations stating that “some merchants were passing transactions on behalf of 86FB/86Z…without approval or authorisation.” According to the fintech, the merchants involved were suspended from using the platform and all funds due to these merchants were settled.