SIR: Last weekend, the Nigerian electorate, in their thousands, trooped out to cast their ballots in the general elections. This was the seventh cycle of general elections held in the country since 1999. Never in the history of our dear nation has insecurity, dire economic strait, youth unemployment, poverty, and corruption, among other societal ills and developmental challenges, become so menacing. Hence, citizens will be expecting that Jagaban, as Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is fondly called by his political associates and teeming admirers, hits the ground running immediately after taking the oath of allegiance on May 29. The masses will not wish that the president-elect waste time assembling a visionary cabinet. There is a need to start thinking of how to tame terrorists, bandits, kidnappers and oil thieves, among other criminal elements, holding the country to ransom. It is time residents of the Northeast and Northwest, together with school children and farmers stop sleeping with just one of their eyes closed. There should be no justification for our farmers not to engage in their agricultural activities, and students fleeing their classrooms because of terror merchants. One fervent wish of many Nigerians is that poverty should no longer be their companion. Already, over 130 million citizens are multi-dimensionally poor, according to the National Bureau of Statistics. As a young northern Nigerian lady, the Almajiri syndrome and the Girl Child are two issues that trouble my mind. Hence, I call on Tinubu to prioritize the aforementioned issues. It is time the beautiful streets in northern states are free of young Almajiri children and girls hawking to eke out a livelihood, at the expense of attending schools. Nigerians expect that his presidency will usher in an era where ASUU strikes will become anathema, and where the lost glories of most Nigerian universities and other tertiary institutions are restored. Henceforth, Nigerian teachers should not wait to die before receiving their rewards. Globally, Nigerian youths are considered to be creative, brilliant and talented. But it seems successive leaders in the country care less about harnessing their potentials. Tinubu should be thinking about changing that ugly narrative. Aside from hoping that he will unveil beneficial socio-economic programmes that will empower our youths, the incoming administration should assiduously work towards addressing, permanently, the menace of youth unemployment. Though he has extended an olive branch to his fellow contestants, the task of uniting every segment of a fractured Nigeria remains arduous. But it is not an impossible mission. All that he needs to achieve that, and many other grand plans he has for our dear country is a firm sincerity of purpose, patriotism and political will. We earnestly hope his administration will usher in a dawn of national prosperity, growth and accelerated development for Nigeria and her enterprising citizens. •Khadijah Ahmad Ado,  Skyline University, Kano,