Two groups, the National Movement for Global Leadership (NMGL) and the Kogi Unity Group (KUG) have emphasised the need for Kogi West Senatorial District to produce the next governor of Kogi State. The groups made the call at different press conferences in Abuja and Lokoja, the Kogi State capital, respectively. Comrade Lukman Ilugbemi, coordinator of KUG, said by the time Governor Yahaya Bello completes his tenure in May, Kogi East and Kogi Central would have governed the state for 18 years and eight years, respectively, while Kogi West is yet to do so in over 30 years since the state was created The group called for the building of consensus towards the November governorship election by ensuring that all political parties picked their candidates from the Kogi West zone during the primaries scheduled for April 2023. Kogi West had in times past supported other senatorial districts as no senatorial district had singularly delivered a governor without at least the support of one other district, the group appealed to the peoples of Kogi Central and Kogi East to reciprocate the gesture by giving their support to a candidate from Kogi West, this time. It added: “Now is our own time. We call on men and women of goodwill with a sense of fairness, equity and justice to allow the Okun-Yoruba people to produce the next governor of Kogi State. We count on you statement to rise on behalf of us the oppressed people of Kogi West, this time. For over 30 years we were denied. Please join hands to liberate us from the chains of oppression and marginalization.” The NMGL National Coordinator, Umar Abutu said it was only right to move the coming governorship seat to Kogi West in the spirit of equity, fairness and justice. Abutu emphasized that both Kogi East and Kogi Central have had their share of the governorship, hence the power shift to Kogi West became justifiable. He said such consideration would bring about love, unity and inclusiveness among the ethnic tribes in the state. He said: “We use this opportunity to especially appeal to all critical stakeholders, political key players, religious leaders and traditional rulers to support this noble cause as a panacea for peace, progress and smooth transition of power in our dear Kogi state. Today, we are here with a message as we consider fairness and equity and in empathy for our brothers in Kogi West Senatorial Zone of Kogi State.”