A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Hon. Rotimi Makinde has appealed to voters in Osun to elect the party’s Assembly candidates on March 18.  Makinde who represented Ife Federal constituency at the National Assembly between 2011 to 2015, in a statement he personally signed and made available to the media on Friday added that a vote for APC will help strengthen the support base of the party and as well offer suitable opportunity for Gboyega Oyetola to perfect and perform his executive functions when he eventually reclaimed his stolen mandate. “My dear party members, I humbly plead with you all to see this forthcoming Osun State Assembly election as top priority and also as a basis to rebuild our party in Osun State with serious intention to solidify the forthcoming government by God’s grace. Let us close ranks and work as a team for posterity sake. This is not an occasion for us to begin to apportion blame to anyone whatsoever in the party. We must therefore jettison whatever differences and prepare to approach the election in an holistic manner to attain landslide victory for all our candidates. Read Also: Factional Afenifere lacks electoral value, says Lagos APC Makinde also expressed confidence in the “ability and willingness of the president-elect, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to alleviate the current hardship in the country as a result of naira scarcity.” While advising INEC to be an unbiased umpire in the electoral process, he said, “We are calling on the Independent National Electoral Commission to create a level playing field for all candidates in the state House of Assembly elections, better than what they did for candidates during the February 25 presidential election.” He further expressed optimism that the APC would also come out victorious in Saturday’s polls and charged members of the party to “sustain the momentum and canvass for votes from all eligible voters to guarantee the success of the party in Saturday’s House of Assembly elections.”