The Convener of Pro-Nigeria Group and Managing Director of CFL Group, Lai Omotola, has stressed the need for Lagos State to be governed by tested technocrats because it is the nation’s economic hub and Africa’s major financial centre. Omotola noted that as the country’s economic backbone, Lagos should not be left to ‘those who would use it to experiment their administrative acumen’. He said: “We should save Lagos from wicked conspiracy theories and attacks against the giant strides of development in Lagos. Since 1999 when we started our democratic journey, we have had four governors; from Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to Raji Fashola, Akinwunmi Ambode and presently Babajide Sanwo-Olu. From one election cycle to another, the governorship seat has been competitive but the progressives have always come out victorious. “However, the presidential election did not turn out as expected, and a careful study of the indices has shown mistakes on our part, and those mistakes must be corrected.” Omotola urged the people to vote Governor Sanwo-Olu and other candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) congress, saying the governor has demonstrated capacity. “We have realised concerted efforts by mischief makers to derail the development path of Lagos. They have provided minnows as alternatives to progressive government. They are asking for a change of government not rooted in genuine facts. But for the avoidance of doubt, Lagos is working very well under the Babajide Sanwwo-Olu-led administration. There is no state in Nigeria that can beat Lagos in all areas of development indices. “Lagos is where entrepreneurs thrive, where entertainment has been shot to the global stage. This is Lagos with the capacity to carry your dreams no matter how big, there is space for everyone. The London and Dubai of Nigeria come and see the wonders of Lagos in our towers of iconic infrastructure. Lagos leads on all indices. There are no abandoned projects in Lagos. “The reason for this success is because the leadership has grown organically, which means every governor has been an insider and has been part of the development blueprint.” “Therefore, if anyone is to lead this Centre of Excellence, we should interrogate the person’s experience and expertise in both public and private service. What have you been able to do for yourself and state? What is the balance sheet of the company you have led? What projects have you executed that we can see? Has your competence and capacity be tested?,” Omotola added.