Former President Olusegun Obasanjo seems unable to stay out of controversy. He stirred the hornets’ nest again early last week with a gratuitous proposal that the 2023 presidential election, results of which at the time were being collated by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), should be upturned and another poll conducted under circumstances that at best would be arbitrary. He cited as reason for his proposal alleged discrepancies that needed correction in results of the election held on February 25. But the remedial steps he canvassed  could have led this country into a constitutional crisis. In an open letter to Nigerians, but by which he pointedly addressed President Muhammadu Buhari while sharing some word of counsel with INEC chairman Professor Mahmood Yakubu, the ex-president unleashed expansive claims that he made no effort whatsoever to substantiate. Among others, he alleged that the Bi-modal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) device that INEC used for the election and its results transmission server were manipulated, that the electoral body’s field personnel were compromised and the election process corrupted, and that results emerging from collation were erroneous because they had not been uploaded through the results transmission server of INEC. He threw in incendiary allusions to purported schemes to destabilise the country, but anyone could see through those as coded metaphors to inflame passions against the ongoing electoral process. His ultimate recommendation was as spurious as it was curious: “Your Excellency, President Buhari Muhammadu, tension is building up and please let all elections that do not pass the credibility and transparency test be cancelled and be brought back with areas where elections were disrupted for next Saturday, March 4, 2023, and BVAS and server officials be changed,” he said. The former president was not by any means dispassionate in the matter, having previously endorsed Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate, Mr. Peter Obi, against who the tide of the election results collation was running. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) emerged victorious in the keenly-contested poll and has since been declared president-elect by the electoral commission. Even then, Obasanjo as former president is an elder statesman and expected to offer counsel rooted in statutory provisions and in the best interest of the country he once watched over. But that wasn’t the case with his letter. His proposal that President Buhari should interrupt and cancel elections that, in his words, “do not pass the credibility and transparency test” has no basis in Nigerian law. Neither is his recommendation that a panel comprising INEC personnel, representatives of the four major political parties and the chair of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) be constituted to “look into what must be done to have hitch-free elections next Saturday (4th March).” We could ask the former president: what would be the legal status of such a panel? Moreover, Obasanjo didn’t seem mindful of national history. It was the suspension of the collation of June 12, 1993 presidential election results that led to eventual annulment of that poll by the Ibrahim Babangida junta and the monumental crisis into which it plunged the country. That experience possibly informed why INEC under the present republic has been wary of throwing the spanners in collation and declaration of election results, pending resolution of complaints by partisans. The commission resisted that pressure in 2011 and 2015, and lately when Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) agent Dino Melaye plied a riotous objection against delayed uploading of 2023 election results onto INEC Results Viewing (IReV) portal that the commission had earlier on acknowledged and moved to redress. Most egregious of all is Obasanjo’s lack of moral standing to crusade for election sanctity. As former president, he watched over the 2003 and 2007 elections that are reckoned among the most crooked in Nigeria’s history. The 2007 poll was so blatantly disreputable that the late President Umaru Yar’Adua, who was the major beneficiary, acknowledged in his inauguration address that the poll was flawed and committed himself to electoral reforms, which made him constitute the Justice Mohammed Uwais panel that re-drew Nigeria’s electoral process map. Lest we forget, the same Obasanjo it was who tried to get third term as president, when the law stipulates a maximum of eight years. And it wasn’t that Obasanjo ever showed respect in personal capacity for due process – even in private elections. In August 2004, he unilaterally overruled and tore up the election result sheet for selection of a new Olowu of Owu, Abeokuta. The action of President Obasanjo, who is the Balogun of Owu, was said to be in protest of the outcome of the selection that did not favour his preferred candidate. There’s, perhaps, no better way of surmising the ex-president’s latest intervention than how information and culture minister Lai Mohammed rejoined to him, saying: “As the whole nation waits with bated breath for the result of (the) national elections amid unnecessary tension created by professional complainants and political jesters, what is expected from a self-respecting elder statesman are words and actions that douse tension and serve as a soothing balm. Instead, former President Obasanjo used his unsolicited letter to insinuate, or perhaps wish for, inconclusive elections and descent into anarchy.” What dubious statesmanship!