Vice President Yemi Osinbajo yesterday said appointment to an important position is not meant to be celebrated but should be seen as a call to service to God and the people. Osinbajo said this in Abuja where he was the special guest of honour at the enthronement service of the new Methodist Archbishop of Abuja, the Most Revd. (Dr.) Michael Akinwale, at the Methodist Cathedral of Unity in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). A statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity in the Office of the Vice President, Mr. Laolu Akande, said the church service also featured the presentation of Sir (AVM) Kayode Beckley (retd.) as the new Methodist Church Diocesan and Archdiocesan Lay President. “Indeed, the office means that your voice must be heard and your leadership seen where there is injustice, deprivation or lack,” Osinbajo said addressing the new Archbishop. He added: “The high call of service to the gospel of Christ is a ministry to all, whether they be amongst the membership of the Methodist Church or even those of other denominations and beliefs.” Congratulating the new Archbishop of Abuja, the Vice President praised him for his many decades of service to the church, stressing that his enthronement was “an affirmation of your lifetime devotion to God and continuous good work in His vineyard”. Osinbajo added: “As his Eminence, the Prelate of the Methodist Church Nigeria sat your grace on the throne, I knew that you were not blinded by the pomp and pageantry of this great occasion, but that you see this as a call to the service of God and man, a great responsibility in our country and world.” Commenting on the place of service and honour for religious leaders, Osinbajo said: “Indeed, as Apostle Paul recommended in 1Timothy 5:17: ‘the elders who direct the affairs of the church well are worthy of double honour, especially those whose work is preaching and teaching’.” The Vice President noted that Archbishop Akinwale’s elevation to his new position was in recognition of his exceptional spiritual and administrative service as the Secretary of the Conference from 2016 to 2022. “It is also a celebration of the journey of consecration you commenced 39 years ago in December 1984 as a Cadet Minister in the Methodist Church,” he said. Osinbajo recalled that the new Methodist Archbishop of the Abuja Diocese was also a former Synod Secretary of the Diocese, Archdiocesan Secretary, and was elected the third Bishop of the Diocese of Badagry in Lagos State. According to him, Archbishop Akinwale, over the years and decades, “has stuck to the core duty of every Christian, which is the propagation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ by the creation and adoption of evangelism opportunities”. The Vice President also congratulated the new Methodist Archdiocesan Lay President of Abuja, Sir Kayode Beckley, and acknowledged the Prelate of the Methodist Church Nigeria, Dr. Oliver Ali Aba, JP, as well as all their eminences at the ceremony.