Since Nigeria got independence in 1960, it has maintained bilateral relations with other countries, in the spirit of international relations and diplomatic alliances. In a globalised world, no one nation can exist in isolation. This explains the use of sanctions through multilateral institutions like the United Nations, the Commonwealth, the African Union, the European Union and other continental and sub-continental organisations, to correct nations that distort world peace. Nigeria established bilateral relations with the United States of America after it got its independence from Britain in 1960. It is worthy of note that democracy in Nigeria is fashioned after the American model, even if in real practice there are systemic differences, possibly owing to the age of the Nigerian nation. As the most populous black nation in the world, the relationship between the United States and Nigeria has had far-reaching effects on the development of both countries in all sectors. The United States is the largest foreign investor in Nigeria. With significant investments in the petroleum/mining sectors, Nigeria is the second largest U.S export destination in sub-Saharan Africa. The benefits of these bilateral relations have cemented the alliances between the two countries. The political, socio-cultural, educational, entertainment, sports and economic collaborations between U.S and Nigeria imply that there must be movements between citizens of both countries. This is why the issuance of visas of various and varying categories are issued by both countries to citizens to facilitate travels to both countries. In a world with increasing and shared needs for development, fight against terrorism, trade relations and other types of interactive relationships, ease of movement is very vital. We therefore commend our Ministry of Internal Affairs for its move to extract the diplomatic reciprocity in visa duration from the United States. For a long time, the visa to the United States for Nigerians travelling on the B1/B2 tourist/business visas had only a two-year duration. However, a few days ago, in the spirit of diplomatic reciprocity, the United States announced that from March 1, 2023, the duration would be upgraded to a five-year duration. The new visa regime would also extend to diplomats and government officials. We commend this recognition of the sovereignty and bilateral relations value of both countries. Equity is the soul of any bilateral or multilateral relationship. The U.S. mission also emphasised that the visa fee remains the same. This move is a welcome development as many Nigerians are seemingly frustrated, having to return to the American Embassy every two years for visa renewal. The money, time and energy spent can now be saved. On the part of the United States, this measure would reduce the number of applications to its office. This action equally comes on the heels of the re-introduction of the Drop-Box system for visa processing that enables frequent visitors to the US to have a visa interview waiver. Before the recent extension to 48 months, it was formally for those whose visas had expired in the last 24 months. From all indications, the governments of the two nations seem to rightly appreciate the value of an improved and more productive bilateral relations. Nigerians make up a very sizeable number of African immigrants in the United States. In fact, Nigerians are known to be the most highly educated immigrants in the United States. What this means is an expanded root in the American society. Families are growing and with that comes businesses and expansion in other areas. Recently, some Nigerians won elective posts in the legislative elections across America and President Joe Biden appointed some Nigeria-Americans into his cabinet. Nigerians in the diaspora are contributing their quota to the development of the Nigerian and American societies. In fact, reports have it that remittances from the diaspora Nigerians, many of whom are in the United States,  run into billions of naira annually.  Beyond political and economic collaborations in sports and entertainment, many Nigerians have benefitted over the decades and pushing up the frontiers of sports and entertainment as tools of engagement. The relationship between our two countries are mutually beneficial in several fronts and more reciprocal actions can further improve the relations in a fast changing world.