Democracy and the federal arrangement are like twin brothers. One cannot exist without the other. Because of their landlocked and hostile country, the Igbo political elite apparently have no faith in the federal arrangement. They can therefore not be democrats because their national instinct wherever they find themselves is to dominate others. Sir Ahmadu Bello, the first premier of Northern Region was the first to cite this tendency as justification for his northernisation policy, an instrument he successfully deployed to replace about 4000 civil servants of non-northern descent with northerners. “The Igbos are more or less the type of people whose desire is mainly to dominate everybody. If they go to a village, to a town, they want to monopolise everything in that area. If you put them in labour camp as a labourer, within a year, they will try to emerge as head man of the camp and so on. Well in the past our people were not alive to their responsibilities…” And as if to validate Ahmadu Bello’s thesis, the first women riot in Nigeria was in Calabar when the women protested the take-over of sales of bush meat, an exclusive preserve of Calabar women by Igbo men. What defines Igbo politics since independence therefore, is domination. Whether their crusade is described as nationalism, search for good governance  or quest for a national rebirth, or whether masked as ‘Obidients’, EndSARS or Zikism, the endgame is domination or enslavement of their host community, an aberration the federal arrangement we adopted at independence which was unfortunately destroyed by General Aguiyi Ironsi’s Decree 34 of 1966 was designed to prevent. Let us start with the EndSARs protest of 2020. Those who provided intellectual support for the protest and some of its field commanders including Prof Pat Utomi and Charly Boy Oputa, Falz and Macaroni, claimed it was in pursuit of good governance. But with the massive destruction of public and private infrastructure in Lagos, the best run state in Nigeria and the fifth biggest economy in Africa, it soon became obvious as confirmed by governors of other Yoruba states that came to commiserate with Lagos governor that it was a matter of some envious people trying to destroy what they could not have. EndSARS sponsors knew Tinubu had never worked for federal government. They knew the media houses indebted to the federal government through AMCON to the tune of about N15b, those whose proprietors are in court over their illegal share in the ‘Dazukigate’ war chest during Jonathan presidency and of course those whose proprietors pretend to provide moral compass after their indictment for financial malfeasance against their states. That those media houses were spared while media houses associated with Tinubu were torched only confirm the claim, not by a few, that those who envy and hate Yoruba even after building their fortunes in Lagos, only exploited the EndSARS crisis  to attack Yoruba interests and its political leaders. It is also perhaps only the unquestioning Obidients who could have believed that Obi, part of PDP until the eve of the election and with nothing to show for his eight years in Anambra, beyond daily harvest of death, would win the 2023 presidential election. All the same, they have awarded themselves victory while ex-governor Chukwuemeka Ezeife of Anambra has threatened “it would be disaster if Tinubu, the president-elect is sworn in” claiming without proof, that “Obi won the presidential election across the country”. However, whilst Aremo Segun Osoba, an elder-statesman and former Ogun State governor praised the (Obidients) for voting massively for their candidate, he could not resist raising questions as to what informed their choice of Labour Party in Eti-Osa and in Ikoyi. He was at a loss as to why Banky W and Obanikoro, well-educated scions of respected Yoruba political families would be defeated in Eti-Osa by an unknown commercial motorcycle rider.  In Ikoyi, an exclusive preserve of the rich, he was wondering why Obidients would settle for Labour Party that has no record as against APC whose urban renewal programme had led to 400-fold increase in the value of their properties. As it is today, so it was yesterday. ‘Zikism’ was the reigning god among Nigerian youths between 1935 and 1959.  Zik of Africa and the foremost Nigerian nationalist was a fiery orator. His anti-imperialist lectures at Glover Hall were a must-attend for the youths of the period. He would quote authority after authority that no one could verify. But shouting of Zeeek was ear-jarring anywhere the African oracle spoke. Among Lagos white cap chiefs, Zik could do no wrong. Although, there was only one Igbo man in the inaugural meeting of NCNC, Yoruba, the real owner of NCNC did not raise any objection to his stepping into the shoes of Herbert Macaulay after his death. He was winning elections in most Yoruba urban centres. But it did not take long before it became obvious Azikiwe’s nationalism was not driven by altruism but his personal ambition and love for his Igbo nation. The Ibo Federal Union was formed in 1943. Zik became its national president. According to Obafemi Awolowo, “Dr Azikiwe himself was an unabashed Ibo jingoist who gave the game away when he said during his presidential speech at the Ibo Federal Union in 1949 that “It would appear the god of Africa has specially created the Igbo nation.to lead the children of Africa from the bondage of the ages.. Not only to conquer others but also adapt themselves to the role of preserver” (Awo Autobiography PP 172)  When Egbe Omo Oduduwa was formed in Lagos in 1949, Zik claiming it was targeted at Igbo and 27million Nigerians unleashed virulent attack on the Egbe and its leaders who were physically attacked along their properties by Zikists who behaved like todays’ Obidients. Consequently when in 1952, Zik wanted to become premier of Western Region at a period an easterner was managing the east and a northerner was managing the affairs of the north, Yoruba political elite’s elected as independent candidates including Adisa Akinloye and others elected on the platform of Ibadan People Party (IPP), opted to take their fate in their own hands, by joining Awolowo’s AG to form Western Region government in 1952. Igbo political elite have no abiding faith in democracy, federalism, the West or even in the North. When the Balewa government freed itself from Igbo beautiful bride blackmail, the military struck in January 1966. When they envisaged they would have little role in 1993 Abiola’s landslide victory in which he secured support from only one of Igbo’s four states, Igbo leading lights  including Arthur Nzeribe, Walter Ofonagoro, Clement Apamgbo, with some help from Obasanjo supported Babangida’s annulment of the election and inauguration of an interim contraption.