Working in Obstetrics and Gyneacology (OB/GYN) can be both challenging and rewarding. We often work for long hours including being on call 24/24h. However, I am passionate about experiencing the joy of bringing new life into the world as well as giving hope to those who have lost hope of getting pregnant. In recent years, the rate of infertility has increased drastically not only in Nigeria, but worldwide. There are several factors that may contribute to this increase, including delaying having a child for women pursuing their education, career or due to economic reasons. However, environmental and lifestyle factors such as pollution, poor diet, smoking, obesity, and excessive alcohol intake, all are having negative impact on fertility.  Nowadays, infertility rates may be increasing, but there are also many effective treatments available depending on the cause of infertility. As a fertility centre, we offer all types of treatment such as: programmed intercourse, intrauterine insemination, intracytoplasmic sperm injection, surrogacy, donation and cryopreservation. In some cases, a surgery may be required before starting infertility treatment.  Note that infertility treatment should be different from one couple to another based on several criteria we assess during our consultation, and the results of the tests that we request in order to propose a tailored plan based on the needs of the couple and their medical conditions. As I already mentioned before, all the treatment for IVF are available at One Wellness Center, Lagos. We offer top notch services for all couples struggling with infertility. We have a qualified team with state-of-the-art equipment. We are trying to make their journey easier by bringing these innovations to their home and using our experience to make their wish come true. In general, all the treatments for infertility are safe procedures for the embryos and the women undergoing the procedure. However, the overall safety of these procedures depends on the experience of the physician, qualified medical team and the laboratory. Some of the risks linked to IVF treatment could be multiple pregnancy due to the transfer of multiple embryos and Ovarian Hyper-stimulation Syndrome (OHSS) in rare cases that can be prevented by an expert physician.  While IVF is often a treatment for infertile couples, it can also be used for other situations. The most common one is for couples who have genetic disorder that could be passed to their children. In this case, IVF with pre-implantation genetic testing (PGT) is recommended to transfer only genetically normal embryos. Also, IVF with PGT is used for those who want a specific gender for the baby. In addition, IVF is advisable for couples who want to do surrogacy with their own gametes.  There is no evidence that babies conceived through IVF are less medically strong than babies conceived spontaneously. Research has shown that babies born through IVF need the same monitoring as the babies conceived naturally. As I already mentioned, lifestyle factors have an impact on our fertility. So it is important to focus on healthy habits such as eating healthy diet to maintain a normal BMI, avoid smoking, reducing alcohol consumption, exercise regularly and managing stress. Moreover, regular checkups can help identify any issue early so it is easier to be treated.  These conditions help to improve your fertility, but the best way to preserve fertility is cryopreservation, especially for the women who wants to preserve the high-quality eggs before their reproductive o’clock starts ticking.