Last month, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) changed the baton of its leadership in a process that ushered in Joe Ajaero, the Deputy-General of the NLC and General Secretary of the National Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE) as president. Last week, the new administration hit the ground running with a tour of affiliates of the NLC in Lagos. The NLC president left no one in doubt that the new administration would re-enact the firebrand that the organised labour movement was known for and provide leadership as expected by many Nigerians. During the tour, Ajaero reinforced hope in  workers, saying the era of lamentations and suffering was over. Ajaero, who was accompanied by the Deputy President, Comrade Adewale Adeyanju and National Auditor Comrade Goke Olatunji, said the Congress would ensure that workers’ rights were neither compromised nor trampled upon. The new NLC president also spoke on  many government’s policies that have encouraged anti-workers’activities, promising to right the wrongs during his tenure. Specifically, the president visited the National Union of Chemical Footwear Rubber Leather and Non-Metallic Products Employees (NUCFRLANMPE) and National President of Steel and Engineering Workers Union of Nigeria (SEWUN), both in Ogun State, the Association of Nigeria Aviation Professionals (ANAP), Private Telecommunications and Communications Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PTECSSAN), and National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), National Union of Food, Beverages & Tobacco Employees (NUFBTE) and others in Lagos. Explaining the reasons for the visits to unions, Ajaero said the purpose was to strengthen collaboration among the unions and other stakeholders to tackle the problems that had been affecting workers. While meeting with the leadership of the bodies, he reassured that the NLC would  meet their demands, stressing that they should, however, make such demands known to the national body. He advised them on the need to prospect for members within their professional callings to ensure employees were not wrongly treated by their employers. Lamenting the rate at which concession had denied workers their jobs, he described it as a structure built on a faulty foundation. He said through privatisation, public properties were sold to few at the detriment of the public. He pointed out that the same group, who clamoured for the sale of public properties, were the same set that sold and bought the public properties. The NLC boss added that, ironically, the same Federal Government that did not inject any funds prior to the privatisation, had started releasing funds into the same electricity sector after the privatisation because they sold it and bought it by themselves and used public funds to maintain it. The NLC at the meetings faulted the employment system of the  organised private sector (OPS), saying it was losing relevance over rising incidents of outsourcing, casualisation and contract staffing. Noting how the majority of workers were struggling to survive, Ajaero said the challenge had become a problem across the country, promising to confront the challenges on. The NLC chief said the challenges were based on policies of the government, which tend to dispossess workers of their income. He boasted about how he repositioned the NUEE and resisted contractors before the privatisation of the power sector, saying the union would have gone into extinction with many workers losing their jobs. Besides the private sector, where the majority of workers in the unions operate, he mentioned that some departments in the public sector had been outsourced. Ajaero alleged that the government spent about N2 trillion as subvention on a company for outsourcing and contract staffing, arguing that the amount could have been used to address critical areas of the economy. As part of measures to address the problem, he promised to resuscitate the anti-casualisation committee of the NLC, stating that workers should not be at the receiving end of the flawed system. He pointed out that there is a new world of work, where contract staff could be unionised. Ajaero charged the unions to compile list of defaulting companies, which disallowed workers to be unionised, stressing that there was a need to create a Private Sector Negotiating Council (PSNC). The National President, SEWUN, Emmanuel Adesanya, on his part, urged Ajaero to have workers’ interests at heart. In the same vein, the immediate past president, National Union of Food, Beverages and Tobacco Employees (NUFBTE), Lateef Oyelekan, bemoaned the unfavourable policies bedevilling the food sector. Oyelekan said the sector needs immediate intervention from collapsing, charging Ajaero to strengthen the sector as over 60 per cent of workers in it are casuals. The leadership of Nigerian Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) also raised the same issues of outsourcing and casualisation as major problems hindering the growth and development in the oil and gas sector.  President of NUPENG, William Akporeha, alleged that there was a conspiracy between some stakeholders in the industry and government officials targeted at weakening the efforts of the union in ensuring the growth of workers in the sector through what he described as an irresponsible level of outsourcing and casualisation.  His words: “They do not employ NUPENG members in the upstream as permanent members anymore. Every job in the oil and gas industry is outsourced and the union is not allowed to organise its workers.” He said it had caused conflict of interests between unions as some NUPENG members were forced to join other unions  to keep their jobs. “Workers in the oil and gas sector are being pushed to the wall by the management such that they resign to join road transport workers’ union, it is as bad as that. Even drivers from Chevron are not allowed to join NUPENG,” he said.  Akporeha lamented that the focus of the Petroleum Industry Act was to share oil money and not to protect the interest of workers. “Stakeholders in the industry such as the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Petroleum do whatever they want, when it comes to policies,” he said. In his response, Ajaero blamed the problem on the policies and laxity of the Ministry of Labour, emphasising that there should be a timeframe for an employee to be a casual worker after which his or her employment should be regularised.  He reiterated the stance of the NLC against such practice, adding that every worker had the right to belong to any union they desired as backed by Section 40 of the Constitution. “Every person shall be entitled to assemble freely and associate with other persons, and he may form or belong to any political party, trade union or any other association for the protection of his interests,” he added.