SIR: Saturday’s governorship and state Houses of Assembly elections are being awaited with bated breath especially, by governors in southern and north central states.  Until now governors were the alpha and omega in their respective states, determining the political direction of their states. On February 25, they were dealt a fatal blow by a ‘third force’ they never reckoned with. Those of them vying to go to the National Assembly as senators (hitherto treated as a retirement home for governors) lost woefully save for one or two instances.  Sitting governors whose names are actually on the ballot for Saturday’s poll, seeking re-election, now have to fight the biggest battle of their political lives, to save themselves from being buried politically.  In Nasarawa State, the re-election bid of Governor Abdullahi Sule appears to be in the balance going by penultimate Saturday’s results. Nasarawa state had always been an APC state with some powerful politicians, among them, Senator Abdullahi Adamu (its first democratically elected governor) now APC national chairman and Senator Tanko Almakura (a former governor too). So, it came as a surprise that APC lost to Labour Party in the presidential election. The reason for the presidential loss is majorly religious sentiment. Internal wrangling arising from alleged imposition of candidates during the primaries that saw some erstwhile APC politicians defecting to other parties, a tinge of ethnic sentiments and sabotage were contributory factors.  In Plateau State, LP expectedly won the presidential election followed by the APC candidate. However in the National Assembly election, PDP had the upper hand, winning five of the eight House of Representatives seat and two of the three senate seats officially announced. Notably, Governor Simon Lalong who is director general of APC’s Presidential Campaign Council lost his bid to be a senator. Would the PDP bounce back to occupy the Rayfield Government House come this Saturday?  It looks likely. The story is different in Benue state where the APC’s Reverend Father Hyacinth Alia is poised to succeed PDP’s Samuel Ortom as governor. The APC won overwhelmingly here, winning all senate and House of Representatives seats save one of each. Ortom is likely heading to political oblivion having also lost his bid to become a senator and also failed to deliver for Obi. He supported Obi in the presidential election.  Labour Party is set to have its very first set of governors in the southeast. LP’s Obi had the highest percentage of votes in this zone. In his home state of Anambra in particular he had 95 percent of the total votes cast there and its senate candidates dislodged two powerful incumbent senators. If the governorship election for Anambra and Imo State were to be held on Saturday, the incumbents would likely be dethroned by LP candidates. Fortunately or unfortunately, both Governors Charles Soludo and Hope Uzodinma are not due for re-election this year. The ruling PDP gubernatorial candidates in both Abia and Enugu states may lose out on Saturday. Ebonyi State’s Governor Dave Umahi is expected to put up a stiff fight in an attempt to install his anointed APC candidate to succeed him, having won his own senate seat and helped his party to win the two other seats, although LP won the presidential election by 75 percent. Whether Umahi’s APC’s governorship candidate would succeed remains to be seen on Saturday.   Also, Delta State governor, Ifeanyi Okowa’s plan to have his preferred candidate (Sheriff) to take over from him is not assured. It looks dicey. Notwithstanding protestations by his opponents for influencing the presidential victory of the APC candidate in Rivers, Governor Nyesom Wike is likely to get Fubara his anointed one over the line to victory this Saturday. A great shout was made of Bola Tinubu losing his home state to Obi in the presidential election. As a result some people are looking forward to the LP dislodging the APC from its long held governorship seat at Alausa. The fact that Tinubu is now president-elect would have an effect on this election. And aware of how strategic Lagos State is nationally, I believe Lagos APC is re-strategising to ensure that the governorship post does not fall into the hands of any opposition party. I expect Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu/APC to win at end of the day. Rabiu Kwankwaso’s NNPP may have a lone governor-elect in Kano State.  Overall APC is expected to have more elected governors than any of the other parties. •Victoria Ngozi Ikeano, Victoriangozii@gmail.com