The Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment (CISI) in Nigeria has appointed new executives to drive its activities in Nigeria. Mrs Ijeoma Onwu emerged President while Mr Obinna Okafor and Mr Abiodun Adebimpe were elected First Vice President and Second Vice President. The CISI is the global professional body offering certification and continuing professional development opportunities across the breadth of financial services. The growing membership supports practitioners in the capital markets, risk and compliance, wealth management and operations and settlement. All these functions are represented. Country Representative, CISI, Nigeria, Dr. John Osuoha, said the new principal officers have shown great commitment towards its growth in Nigeria, noting that they were elected based on their commitment and support over the years to the vision of CISI. “With their many years of valuable experience in various capacities in the financial services space, including corporate board room exposure. They are set to promote and deliver the benefits of the Institute across the financial sector in Nigeria. “We would also like to thank inaugural President Mr Bola Ajomale for his inspiration and leadership and the outgoing President Mr Ade Buraimo,” Osuoha said. Assistant Director, Global Business Development, CISI, Helena Wilson said the institute was delighted to welcome such esteemed member practitioners to help it shape the CISI’s growth in Nigeria. “It is an exciting time for the CISI with a growing number of universities, including Covenant, Elizade, Mountain Top and Babcock all training students for CISI certificates. We are also working closely with the Nigerian Exchange Group to deliver training for our globally recognised wealth management and derivatives modules. We are thankful for the support of our strategic membership partners, the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) and Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) as we work together to deliver global continuing professional development,” Wilson said. Onwu is a senior member of CISI in Nigeria and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN). She has vast experience in audit and advisory services and as a chartered stockbroker and certified information systems auditor, she has over 20 years of working experience, with over 10 years in leadership positions. Onwu said CISI has a lot to offer in Nigeria, noting that the importance of professionalism and integrity should be at the heart of the Nigerian member community. “The knowledge, skills and behaviour the CISI offers contribute extensively to a practitioner’s employability and I look forward to working on behalf of, and meeting members during my term of office,” Onwu said. Okafor holds a BSc and MSc in Accounting and an MBA in Marketing. He is the Managing Consultant and Chief Executive of Vicosbin Consult Limited, a firm of compliance, risk management, audit & investigation, strategies and management consultancy. He has more than 20 years experience in financial services where he rose to executive positions in accounting, audit, compliance and risk management. Okafor is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (FCA), a Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialist (CAMS) and a Fellow of the Compliance Institute, Nigeria (FCIN). Okafor is the Chairman, Governing Council of The Society for West Africa Internal Audit Practitioners (SWAIAP). He is a Director in Mamoru Digital Technology Nigeria Ltd, a mentor with Tony Elumelu Entrepreneurial Foundation and a Chartered Tax Practitioner (ACTI). Adebimpe is the West African regional head of Custody Services for Rand Merchant Bank (RMB), a division of First Rand Group headquartered in South Africa. He also worked for Stanbic IBTC and Standard Chartered Bank where he held managerial positions. Adebimpe is a graduate of Accounting from the University of Ilorin, Nigeria where he emerged the best graduating student in the Accounting & Finance Department and faculty of Business & Social Sciences for the 2002-2003 academic session. He also emerged as the overall best professional examinations student of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) in 2004 and he is a Fellow of ICAN, and Honorary Senior Member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN).