The people of Rumucheta village in Mgbuesilari Community, Obio/Akpor Local Government Area, Rivers State, are at loggerheads with the Nigeria Air Force (NAF) over large expanse of land located in the area.  The community lambasted NAF for allegedly encroaching into the land being developed as an estate despite series of court orders against such invasion. The community said the NAF under the leadership of its Commander, Nigeria Air Force Base, Port Harcourt, Group Capt., Opeleye Azeez, seized part of the land. The community represented by Chief Vincent Nwanwa, Solomon Amadi, Pastor Prince Amadi and Chief Darlington Wali, had instituted a matter against The Nigeria Air Force,  Azeez, Commander of the Base at a Rivers State High Court Holden in Port Harcourt. It was found that Justice Adolphus Enebeli gave interlocutory injunction ordering the defendants to stop further trespass and attempt to erect any structure on the parcel of land pending the hearing and determination of the matter. But the lawyer for the community and Chief Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Sir Cosmas Enweluzo, regretted that the Azeez and his men were still bulldozing and selling off the community land despite the order of court. Enweluzo said that the Air Force had fenced off its premises explaining that a creek already formed a natural boundary between Rumucheta and the NAF. He said: “They have boundary with Nigeria Air Force; the ‘Ntawogba stream is the boundary the community has with Air Force. Now in 2013/2014, Air Force wanted to fence off their land.  “They invited neighbouring communities and paid compensation to all those they acquired their land. Having paid compensation, this particular community, Nigeria Air Force said to them (Rumucheta) ‘we did not acquire your land’ “But the important thing is that in 2014, they fenced off their land. The community continued maintaining the natural boundary.  “Now the same Air Force that has already fenced their land, jumped the fence, crossed the creek and invaded the community, claiming that the community is part of their premises. Enweluzo noted that when the land owners started developing it,  soldiers from the Air Force Barracks invaded the property with swamp buggy. He said: “When the family started developing their land, the Commander Group Captain Opeleye Azeez, invaded the community and started destroying all the development in place.  “We went to court, the court listened to the parties and granted an interim order, ordering Nigeria Air Force to steer clear the land. “We got a court order, originally experte. We met in court and we argued it and the court made a consequent order, directing Air Force to steer clear of the place pending the hearing, determination of the case.  “We were still on this, they invaded the community with swamp buggy, despite the court order and demolished the entire estate that was being done by the community.” The Paramount Ruler and Nyewe Eli, Mgbuesilaru Community, HRH Eze Princewill Ejikeme Wali, accused Air Force of intimidating communities around its base. Wali said that his relationship with the commander of the went sour when he (Azeez) attempted to using him to achieve his personal purposes. He said: After we got the Injunction against the Air Force to steer clear the land, he came and sort the leaf of court to settle out of court. The court granted the leaf. “He sent his lawyer to the palace, all of us met and we discussed. The lawyer told us that he has agreed to stay away from the property since there is a court order and that it is clear that we own the land.To our greatest surprise, he entered the land with Swamp buggy to start repartitioning the land. “Mgbuesilari are not Rumuomasi people that the Air Force forcefully took their land. They may be holding the gun, but we are holding the law. They cannot take our land. He should know that we are fully prepared. We will not fight them because they are holding gun, but we are coming with law.” When contacted, the Commander, Nigeria Air Force Base, Port Harcourt, Group Captain, Opeleye Azeez, declined to comment of the matter, but said there was already a court judgement on the matter.