President-elect Bola Ahmed Tinubu has said mindless killings have no place in the country. Tinubu was reacting to an attack on a police station in Maru Local Government Area of Zamfara State. In the early hours of Sunday, gunmen attacked the station, killing its Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Kazeem Raheem, and a police Inspector Rabi’u Umar. In a statement by Abdulaziz Abdulaziz of his media office in Abuja, the President-elect noted that citizens have to be united to “defeat these killers”. “As a country, we have to come together to defeat these merchants of death and terror once and for all. “Mindless killings and atrocities like this should have no place in our country,” he said. Tinubu said there should be an investigation into the murder of the district head of Maigari in Kano State, who was the father of Munir Dahiru Maigari, the Chairman of Rimin Gado Local Government Area. Also, the President-elect has condoled with the families of Ahmad Gumi, an Islamic cleric, and the late Gen. Sani Abacha. While Gumi lost his mother, the Abacha family lost Abdullahi, a son. “It is touching to part with a loved one, no matter the circumstances and age. “We cannot question the will of Allah, but we can only pray that Almighty Allah grants them eternal rest and give us the fortitude to bear their demise,” Tinubu said. Also, Zamfara State Governor Bello Matawalle has condoled with the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) over the killing of two officers by bandits on Saturday in Maru Local Government Area of the state. In a statement yesterday in Gusau, the state capital, by his media aide, Zailani Bappa, the governor described the attack as callous and an act of cowardice. He said his administration was aware of the desperate attempt by the bandits to give an impression of supremacy after they had been weakened in recent times. Matawalle assured the people that the attack would not slow down the tempo of security operatives in exerting more pressure on the criminals. The governor pledged more support to security operatives and advised the citizens to be more vigilant and report any suspicious persons or movements around them. “The state government condoles with the Nigeria Police Force, the Organised Vigilance Group and families of those who heroically lost their lives in the attack while carrying out their official duty,” he added. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in Maru, Kazeem Raheem, a Superintedent of Police (SP), and Inspector Rabi’u Umar were killed by the bandits during the attack. Zamfara State Police Commissioner Kolo Yusuf had, in a condolence message to the families of the slain officers, reassured the people of the commitment of the command to the protection of life and property. Yusuf said the command had deployed a tactical team, led by DCP Operations, Iliyasu Kwarbai, to track down the killers.