When Nigeria’s Flying Eagles and Uganda’s Hippos clash in today’s quarterfinal of the U-20 AFCON, one thing that is at stake is the ticket to the FIFA U-20 World Cup. From the Uganda captain Isma Mugulusi, the Hippos are ready and raring to qualify for the WC. “We are ready, everyone is in shape, and we’re mentally good. We’ve tried to put what the coach wants into practice. I think we can overcome Nigeria in the quarter-finals,” the Makedonikos FC attacker said. “Nigeria has been good but now we’re also good and we can compete. “If we manage to qualify for the quarter-finals that means we can also qualify for the semi-finals and go to the World Cup. “Tomorrow (today)  is the day we will write history in Ugandan football.” However, Nigeria coach Ladan Bosso has his sights set on booking a World Cup ticket in Egypt. “We all know that Nigeria has qualified to the quarter-final stage and knowing fully that we have an objective of coming out of this place and the least task ahead of us is to pick one of the slots to the FIFA U-20 World Cup,” said Bosso.”We’re almost there but it is not yet sealed. We believe and hope that at the end of the regulation time tomorrow (today)  we should be celebrating.” “The Ugandan team is equally qualified and they’re our next opponents and we cannot underrate any team,” Bosso added. “The knockout stage if you don’t squeeze through it’s as if you didn’t qualify so we will do all we can do to make sure we go through to the World Cup. “We have our strategy and we hope our plan will work accordingly.” Goalkeeper Chijioke Aniagboso said they need to work even harder to beat the Hippos of Uganda. “We will continue from where we stopped improving our game but we’re happy to get to this stage,” Chijioke said.”We need to work so much harder than how we started to like my coach said losing this match is like not even qualifying at all so I think we’re prepared with the coaches and by god grace, we will go through. “We are in a confident mood because we started this and we have to end it. There’s no feeling or anything. Our job is to go to the field and up our game and book our ticket.”