With many customers embracing cashless banking, following the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) currency reforms, the banks have been overwhelmed with meeting the expectations of their customers. Failed transactions across banks have continued to rise, leading to loss of confidence in many banks. However, fintech firms are the biggest beneficiaries of their trend, with companies like Pay, Palmpay, Kuda, among others, carrying out transactions previously done by banks. Also, Fintechs such as Quick-teller, MoniDey, Baxi, PocketMoni, Unified Payments, Paga, and Remitta and Cellulant, are part of the financial system, offering banking services to the banked and unbanked. Like Fintechs, banks are prioritising 24/7 access and offering services via non-traditional channels such as social media. For instance, Martins Stevenson, 30, was leaving home for work when his smartphone beeped with a familiar Facebook message alert. It was a reminder for him to send the monthly allowance to his 80-year-old mother who lives in  Ijebu Ode, Ogun State. His wife, Victoria, had reminded him the previous night of the allowance and how badly his mother needed the money to pay her medical bills. Two payment options came to his mind. The first was to pay through internet banking platform of FirstBank. The other was to use Quickteller or Paga network. Few minutes later, he went for the Quickteller option. Quickteller and Paga are Fintechs providing mobile money and digital payment services to consumers and are top competitors to banks. The little N100 fee from the transaction seems to represent one of the millions of revenue leakages banks are fighting back to reclaim. Implementation of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)-led naira redesign policy has also led to more customers embracing cashless banking. With the ongoing cash scarcity, more people are embracing cashless banking. From people at the grassroots to high networth individuals and firms, the ongoing naira redesign policy has attracted diverse reactions. CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, gave an insight to the expected impact of the policy on the financial system and economy. He said over N 2 trillion has been mopped up from the economy. “Ordinarily, when CBN releases currency into circulation, it is meant to be used and after effluxion of time, it returns to the CBN, thereby keeping the volume of currency in circulation under the firm control of the CBN. Malls and supermarkets in major cities are making huge sales, following the ongoing CBN currency reforms and redesigning of  N200, N500 and N1,000 notes. The policy shift has led to massive cash shortage, which  became pronounced in the past few weeks. Many filling stations are also focusing on PoS transactions, while some retail shops are now run 100 per cent on PoS’ and e-transfers.  “Our manager asked us not to take cash, whether new or old notes. All transactions must be either through PoS’ or form form of e-transfers,” a shop attendant, said on the owner’s decision to go cashless. So far, the hardest-hit by the naira redesign policy are individuals, small businesses, transport firms and cocoa farmers who depend on Nigeria’s informal economy, which the International Monetary Fund (IMF) estimates accounts for more than half of the nation’s gross domestic product. Also, shop owners in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT, said theirs sales’ volumes have increased following the implementation of the CBN’s  currency reform programme. The malls managers said  they were recording tremendous sales as customers use of PoS machines, and electronic transfers instead of cash.  Mr Sunday Ahmadu, who operates a mini- supermarket along Jukwoyi road, said his sales had tripled within this period, especially after the phasing out of the old naira notes. Another provision trader, Malam Ibrahim Sule, also expressed excitement over the development, saying that the difficulty faced by people to access the new naira notes gave him an edge over other traders who lacked PoS and electronic banking platforms. Sule, popularly called Baba, said the volume of his sales had gone up as people who were stranded because of the cash crunch, were making his shop a last resort. According to him, there might be hitches in transactions most times, but that he could  reconcile with his banks because of his  experience in PoS transactions. “Many desperate people are being referred to my shop because of the lack of cash.  “This made me to introduce more perishable items due to popular demand. I am happy to meet their needs and make more money,” he added. Mrs Nnenna Ozor, another trader, while narrating her experience, said she used to be skeptical about online deals, but recent events had forced her to embrace online transactions which were aiding her business. Ozor listed the advantages associated with the cashless policy implementation to include; increased patronage, profit and curbing of debt by customers who often bought goods on credit. She, however, said the only challenge in accepting the transfer was the refusal of other traders, especially petty businesses, to accept online transactions as they often requested for cash.  Also, a Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, Prof. Monday Igwe, has advised Nigerians to stay positive in the midst of scarcity of fuel and the redesigned Naira notes to overcome depression and other mental complications. Igwe, who is the Medical Director of Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Enugu, spoke on how best Nigerians can manage their psychological health in the face of the economic realities of fuel and naira scarcity. ”My advice to Nigerians is to cultivate features of positive mental well-being such as love, joy, forgiveness and positive appraisal of events,” he said. Also, the Nigerian Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has deployed PoS terminals to make it easy for patients to pay for medical services. The Secretary, Health and Human Services Secretariat, FCTA, Abubakar Tafida, said this  in the face of the currency crunch. The CBN has held several meetings with  Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) and provided them with Guidance. Processes banks should adopt in  old notes collection and new notes distribution  “These include specific directives to DMBs to load new notes into their ATMs nationwide to ensure an equitable/transparent mechanism for the distribution of the new notes to all Nigerians,” he said. The apex bank also commenced a nationwide sensitisation through the print and electronic media to create an awareness on the redesigned notes to Nigerians, including collaboration with the National Orientation Agency (NOA), to reach Nigerians across multiple channels. It deployed 30,000 Super Agents to assist in the Cash Swap initiative in the hinterlands, rural areas, and regions underserved by banks to ensure that the weak and vulnerable ones among us can swap/exchange their old notes. Emefiele said: “As you may be aware, currency management is a key function of the Central Bank of Nigeria, as enshrined in Section 2 (b) of the CBN Act 2007. Indeed, the integrity of a local legal tender, the efficiency of its supply, as well as its efficacy in the conduct of monetary policy are some of the hallmarks of a great Central Bank.  “In recent times, however, currency management has faced several daunting challenges that have continued to grow in scale and sophistication with attendant and unintended consequences for the integrity of both the CBN and the country.” The challenges, he said, included the hoarding of banknotes by the public, with statistics showing that over 80 per cent of currency in circulation was outside the vaults of commercial banks. He added that the shortage of clean and fit banknotes with attendant negative perception of the CBN and increased risk to financial stability as well as increasing ease and risk of counterfeiting evidenced by several security reports were reasons for redesigning the notes. The CBN chief noted that though global best practice was for central banks to redesign, produce and circulate new local legal tender every five to eight years, the naira has not been redesigned in the last 20 years. Member, Presidential Economic Advisory Council, Bismarck Rewane has said the CBN printed N400 billion new naira notes, following the currency redesign programme. In a report released yesterday entitled: “Nigeria Hits A Brick Wall”, he stated that a shortfall of N2.48 trillion exists, leading to near paralysis of commercial activities in the economy.  He said the shortfall represents 90 per cent of the cash in circulation. According to Rewane, who is the Managing Director, Financial Derivatives Company Limited, the total money supply stood at N52 trillion,. He said three of the eight denominations- N200, N500 and N1,000 estimated at N2.88 trillion – make up 90 per cent of the cash in circulation. Rewane said Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) remains at $504.23 billion, with informal sector at 30 per cent of the GDP and worth $151.27 billion. He said informal sector transactions settled by cash is worth $5.14 billion while velocity of circulation in the informal sector is 29 times. According to him, reduction in the velocity of money will lower output in the informal sector.  “The informal sector accounts for 30 per cent of formal GDP. It employs over 80 per cent of the total population. Transactions are mainly settled in cash and PoS. There is a linkage between the informal and formal economy,” he said.   He said the Federal Government, with the best intentions, decided to redesign the naira at the most inauspicious time.  He said the policy has brought chaos and the unintended consequences. “… Nigerians are battling scarcity (fuel, cash & forex). Not only are these essential items in short supply, the queues and exorbitant prices accompanying them have worsened the cost-of-living crisis. While inflation dipped in December to 21.3 per cent, it is still at its highest level since 2005 and could be higher in the near term,” Rewane said. According to him, consumers are not the only ones feeling the pinch. He said retailers are confused, investors bewildered, and unsurprisingly, policymakers are supposedly helpless, evidently stuck between a rock and a hard place. Also, private consumption, which contributes 70 per cent to GDP, is squeezed, and investment inflows, already downhill, could fall further as the crisis of confidence persists. “The macroeconomic impact of the downtime due to ATM queues, petrol queues and the cash crunch could result in a contraction of three to five per cent   of GDP in first quarter of 2023,” he added.