Police in Ebonyi State have killed three gunmen who attacked residents in Ivo local government area. Police spokesperson Onome Onovwakpoyeya confirmed this in a statement on Wednesday. She said the incident occurred on Tuesday in Ogwor community in Ivo Council area and Ọssọ in Afikpo South local government area. According to her, the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Ivo Divisional Headquarters received a distress call the gunmen were firing sporadically and razed two vehicles and a filling station. She said on receipt of the information the Divisional Police Officer swung into action and left for the scene. “While at the scene an information revealed that unknown gunmen were sighted sitting down in a Public Place at Ogwor community in Ishiagu. “On their way, the men were ambushed and attacked, and an Assistant Superintendent of Police was shot, but the patrol team engaged the hoodlums with a superior fire power. During the Gun duel, one of the hoodlums was neutralized and others fled with bullet wounds,” Onome said. Read Also: Gunmen kill Pastor, sons in Plateau The spokesperson said the DPO immediately called the Headquarters for reinforcement but the Commissioner of Police, CP Sunday Olaleye, intercepted the distress call. She said the CP immediately directed tactical teams to storm the place with the description of the vehicle and the route through which the hoodlums were escaping. However, on sighting the Police operatives, the hoodlums engaged them in a gun duel at Osso, junction, where two of the hoodlums were equally neutralized and two arrested. The spokesperson said the following exhibits were recovered at the scene of crime: 2 AK-47 Rifles, 1 locally made pistol, some charms and a red Toyota Corolla car,1 Fireman Generator and One Haier Thermocool Fridge. Others are: a Walkie talkie radio Set, 30 “AK-47′ Live ammunition, 20 expended AK-47 ammunition, 1 AK-47 Magazine, 1 Itel phone, 1Android phone, 1 Police Trousers, 1 Police Beret, 1 Police face cap and some other incriminating items.