Super Eagles coach Jose Peseiro and captain Ahmed Musa were not in unison over their choices for the FIFA Best Award men’s Player of the Year following the publication of entries of all national team coaches and captains by the world soccer ruling body, FIFA. At The Best FIFA Football Awards in Paris on Tuesday, Argentina’s World Cup-winning captain Lionel Messi has crowned the best player in men’s football ahead of his Paris Saint Germain (PSG) teammate Kylian Mbappe and Real Madrid captain Karim Benzema. However, it has since come to light that both Peseiro and Musa voted differently after the Portuguese coach picked Benzema in first position with Messi in second position and Manchester City’s Belgian star Kevin De Bruyne in third position. On the other hand, Musa, a 2013 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) winner with the Super Eagles, came close to picking the FIFA’s pecking order as he voted Messi in first position with Benzema and Mbappé in second and third positions respectively. The annual poll by national team coaches, captains, as well as journalists, and fans across the world, often elicits interest and criticism. Foremost Nigerian football diarist, Kunle Solaja hit the bull’s eyes with his choice of Messi, Mbappe, and Benzema in that order but Real Madrid defender David Alaba has reportedly been slammed for picking Messi ahead of his club teammate, Frenchman Benzema. According to BBC Sports, the Austria national team’s captain was left with no choice but to defend his choice of Messi after he was ‘torn to pieces’ prompting the hashtag #AlabaOut to trend on social media. “The Austrian national team vote for this award as a team, not me alone,” said Alaba, the former Bayern Munich defender. “Everyone in the team council is able to vote and that’s how it’s decided. “Everyone knows, especially Karim, how much I admire him and his performances and I have often said that for me he is the best striker in the world, and that is still the case. Without doubt,” added the 30-year-old centre-back of Nigerian descent.