The Labour Party (LP) in Ogun State has endorsed and adopted Governor Dapo Abiodun of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as its governorship candidate. Speaking when he led the state executive members of the Labour Party to the Governor’s residence at Iperu-Remo, Ogun LP chairman, Comrade Michael Ashade, said the good works of the Governor and the need to sustain them till 2027 informed the decision to throw its weight behind him. With Ashade were the National Publicity Secretary of LP Abayomi Arabambi; state secretary, Engr. Michael Feyisola; Women Leader, Elizabeth Oladimeji; Ogun East Senatorial Chairman; Babaseun Ogunyemi; State Treasurer, Sobayo Olaniyi and State Youth Leader, Adebiyi Adekunle. Others are State Legal Adviser, Monday Mawahi; Assistant Secretary,  Wale Okusanya and State Deputy Chairman, Otunba Yinka  Adeboye, Senatorial chairman for Ogun West, Olufemi Olusola, State Organising secretary, Tosin Meadows and Youth Leader, Ogun West, Godwin Adeleye  Ashade said: “We are here to appreciate His Excellency, our governorship candidate, whom we have come to endorse at this occasion. We have not had it better in Ogun State at a time like this, we as an opposition parties are not intimidated by the fact that we are in the opposition. “All through the campaign period which is still ongoing, I don’t think any party will complain that its supporters are being strangulated or impeded. None of our candidates can make that statement. We want to thank you sir for giving all the parties a level playing ground, we equally want to thank His Excellency for allowing peace to reign before, during and after the election of February 25. ” It is glaring that all through the nation, Ogun State can stand out as being the most peaceful during this election period. Your leadership style has alluded to this and your statesmanship in leading this state on the right path has laid credence to that. “As the Chief security officer, the governor has demonstrated that all lives matter and everyone can say to an extent that Ogun State is peaceful and safe and we, even though we are in the opposition, we have come to say thank you for allowing peace to prevail in Ogun State. ” We have also come as a party to say we are supporting you on your bid to govern Ogun State for a second term. Even though we have lost, we are not losers, we are magnanimous even in our defeat and we are lending our support to you”. While maintaining that the party’s support to the Governor was key and symbolic, the Labour party chairman observed that in the current political space, the LP has become a formidable force to be reckoned with as elections are no longer a two or three horse race, pledging his members complete support at all times. Ashade said that though no one is expecting Ogun to be  El dorado after the Governor’s second term, the State is expected to fare better as his victory will bring another new dawn in the history of the state. National Publicity Secretary of LP Abayomi Arambambi, said: “I know we have one governorship candidate here and Ogun State Labour Party is here, we don’t have any dissenting voice, we know ourselves, we have come to tell Your Excellency that you are our G governorship candidate because Ogun State must move forward, Ogun State must be productive, Ogun State must move from this era of deception of people that don’t even know what to do for themselves. “I know the only man that can offer us progress in Ogun State is the governorship candidate that we have come here to endorse. So for us in the Labour Party, our own endorsement is not behind the camera, it is in front of the camera. “We, the Ogun State Labour Party have come to say a yes to your second term. Abiodun described the Labour Party a force that has come to redefine politics in the nation, saying its performance at the presidential election has demonstrated that they would spring surprises, stating that their position in the elections however indicated that it was free and fair. “I thank you for the encouragement. Though I did not ask for it, you did it out of your conviction. I take this as a validation of the good work we have done in less than four years. “We have opened up the state through the ISEYA Agenda. We have won ourselves honours and the most peaceful state in the country. We won awards both locally and internationally. We will not rest, but continue to keep faith with our people,” he stated. Abiodun explained that he adopted the inclusive policy to give opportunity to the people as stakeholders to contribute to the development of the state as it is imperative to do everything to ensure that Ogun occupies its pride of place in Nigeria. While promising to continue to be just, fair and responsive to the people, irrespective of their political leaning, the governor thanked the LP state exco for the confidence reposed in hm.