Telecoms vendor, Ericsson has set Net Zero target as key pillar of its overall company and technology strategies. Head of Technology and Strategy, Ericsson Networks, Freddie Södergren, who spoke after the company emerged the overall sustainability leader in a study conducted by ABI Research that evaluated the capabilities of telecom vendors to reduce energy use and waste across the industry. He said: “We started our sustainability journey at Ericsson many years ago with a strong focus on supporting our customers. We have been closely working with them in recent years to achieve their energy and sustainability targets. Energy performance and achieving Net Zero targets are key pillars of Ericsson’s overall company and technology strategies.” ABI ranked more than 80 telco vendors and suppliers based on the two key areas of implementation and impact. The assessment provided a matrixed view of the ecosystem of companies that can best support service providers in their drive toward improved sustainability. Ericsson led the assessment overall for implementation – ranking highest for sustainable networks and business, and number one in the main radio access network (RAN) categories, including Massive MIMO, 5G RAN, AI-driven software, and antenna solutions, according to ABI’s “Sustainability Assessment: Telco Technology Suppliers” research report. In terms of impact, Ericsson also topped the list among vendors for its Net Zero emission targets. The company is determined to halve its value-chain emissions by 2030 and reach Net Zero by 2040. Ericsson has also committed to become Net Zero in its own activities by 2030. Principal Analyst at ABI Research, Kim Arrington Johnson, said: “In the sustainability assessment, Ericsson received strong scores for innovation and sustainable impact, due to the close co-design of Ericsson Silicon with hardware and software playing a crucial role in creating high-performing, lightweight, and energy-efficient products. Ericsson designs and builds RAN hardware equipment with sustainability in mind.” Vendors and suppliers were scored in each equipment category against a set of impact and implementation criteria weighted in terms of their importance, ability to reduce carbon emissions and waste, and the levels at which the equipment has been implemented across the industry. (See below an example of the scoring method used). The final stage took each company’s aggregated overall score and grouped the companies into relevant market segments (traditional vendors, non-traditional vendors, software vendors, and chipset and component vendors). Ericsson ranked number one in this overall score. ABI Research says in its report that focus on network energy performance and product energy management is critical to Ericsson’s sustainability efforts. The analyst firm highlights as a “product impact example” the triple-band, tri-sector Radio 6646. This Ericsson radio cuts energy use by 40 percent compared to triple-band single-sector radios and is 60 percent lighter (less aluminum used in the product). ABI Research also assessed Ericsson’s other sustainability efforts such as its Global Product Take-Back Program, as well as Ericsson’s initiative with its strategic suppliers to set their own 1.5°C aligned climate targets. The Ericsson USA 5G Smart Factory in Lewisville, Texas, is one example of sustainable manufacturing practices by the company highlighted in the report. The factory has been recognized as a global front-runner in the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) and awarded by the World Economic Forum with the prestigious “Global Lighthouse” designation. Being named the leader in ABI Research’s sustainability assessment is a recognition of the efforts and achieved results of Ericsson’s Net Zero ambition. The company continues to step up the challenge and has recently launched more than 10 new hardware and software products that will cut carbon emissions and site footprint, increase energy performance, and boost network capacity. The new solutions will be showcased at Mobile World Congress (MWC) 2023 Barcelona.