Leah Sharibu remains prisoner of conscience five years after abduction To Nathan and Rebecca Sharibu, the event of February 19, 2018, remains a bad dream, a nightmare really, that has refused to go away. It was a day that laughter was banished from their home.  Although, their daughter, Leah, was only one of 120 students kidnapped by the dreadful Boko Haram insurgents from the Government Science and Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe State, while 105 of the girls were soon released, Leah’s whereabouts remains unknown. Parents of five other girls who did not make it back home have found closure as their friends confirmed their death. The circumstances surrounding her continued captivity remain cloudy, as the authorities only pledged to secure her release soon. That was in 2018. Since then, Leah who was the only Christian among those abducted is only known to have turned down the only condition for her release – “renounce your faith”. Abducted at a tender age of 14, the girl was known to have a mind of her own and was reported by her classmates to be prepared to lay down her life rather than convert to Islam. This, in a country where religion is sensitive, has led the Christian community to call on President Muhammadu Buhari to live up to the promise to get her released. Five years is a long time and Leah has already lost so much. Her education was truncated by terrorists who consider western education a crime, sometimes punishable by death. Reports indicate that she was converted to a slave girl attached to one of the heartless criminals, deprived of the love of her people. The society has been deprived of the contribution of a promising young lady to its development. We join the Christians and people of Dapchi and environs to call on the federal and Yobe State governments to step up Leah’s recovery. The security forces, including the police, military and Department of State Security should not be allowed to draw the curtain on that abduction. It should never be said that the terrorists are more powerful than the Nigerian state. Leah is not a mere captive girl, she has become an icon of the struggle. Whereas there is no proof that the anti-terror forces simply abandoned her because she is a Christian, that narrative is one that will remain rife since she is a prisoner of conscience. As the parents have said, the speculation that she had since become a mother is no reason for the Nigerian state to leave her in the custody of the blood-sucking terrorists. It is particularly unfortunate that the Federal Government appears to be indifferent to the plight of the young lady and her people. The human rights community at home and abroad should step up the advocacy for her release. Since the Dapchi experience, many other school boys and girls who were similarly abducted have had their freedom, either directly or indirectly negotiated by the government. In some cases, ransom was paid, and in others, in exchange for release of Boko Haram commanders. Why is Leah Sharibu’s case different? This is an auspicious moment to bring up her case as politicians had been canvassing for votes throughout the country. None of them is known to have specifically addressed the issue. Not even lawmakers from Yobe State, including those representing her at the state and national assemblies. We call on the media, nongovernmental organisations and the international community to pick up the campaign. Unless this is done, the abductors would see themselves as victors and may be emboldened to follow the same route in picking up other hapless Nigerian citizens. The situation is already bad, but we can still recover as much of the national pride as we could by bringing the hero home. Besides, if Leah’s story ends as it is today, it could be a discouragement to young people who know and are convinced about doing the right thing. Failure to retrieve the poor lady will end up giving the impression that Nigeria does not care about her citizens and this would be dangerous to the national psyche and sense of patriotism.