It’s all about the wait. It’s not just in the morning, when you deny sleep and turn voting into a missionary assignment. It is even before then, during the barnstorming, the frenzy of travels and dewy eyes of long meetings, the miscues of strategy, the slips and triumphs of rhetoric. The map becomes at once a sort of toy to hug and puzzle to study. It is about days to the polls, and the self-doubts and hope. Have I done enough, spoken to the right person? Shall I return to that venue, recalibrate that tactic? It’s about the moment at the poll, where the voter becomes instant fortune teller, reading the minds of the others and wondering, “are they going to vote my candidate?” That fellow with a knotted brow, he looks a little peevish. He can’t vote for my candidate. May his finger print ink over the line. If my candidate loses, how many will taunt me? Do I need a doctor, a medication, a prophylactic against a muscle spasm, a sudden stumble and fall. If he wins, what song will I invoke to jangle their ears who mocked me all year? After the vote, we muse over the polling officers as they obliterate ballot papers from errant finger prints. That belongs to that fellow with a cloudy eye. But when the counting begins, you cannot sit and when you stand, you forget when you are sitting again. Whether your candidate wins or loses at your polling area, you are now concerned with elsewhere, like an addict who didn’t get enough drag at that cigar. What is happening in the east, in the recesses of Jigawa, in Wike’s lair? You go to the social media and your WhatsApp plops with good news and then reality shows your guys cherrypicked the results. You still don’t know. You become a muscle of misery. You want to know, win or lose. “Suspense,” wrote poet Robert Burns, “is worse than disappointment.” But what the election season has taught us this time may lead to a triumph of commonsense. That must be the goal of the next president. But it was a big boil of lies and divide. We see that religion took a position it should never take in polls. We blame the churches. Because a candidate picks another, we turn the decision into a war of the faiths. We simplify the person. He is a Muslim or he is Christian. He has no other identity. The church sees to that. So when Asiwaju is defined as a Muslim who picks Kashim Shettima, who is a Muslim, we make the man look as though that is all that resides in his soul. And that is because that is what resides in the souls of the bishops and other clerics who tar them to tarnish their names. When Jesus asks his disciples, “who do people say the Son of Man is? They reel out a slew of identities. He is John the Baptist. He is Jeremiah. He is one of the prophets. But they have no patience with his own self-identity, until Peter says it. So, no pastor, who calls himself a man of the discerning spirit, consulted the holy ghost to tell them. He must be a demon so long as he is no Christian. Yet, before Tinubu became a candidate, we knew a lot of identities: a son of a trader, an accountant, a Mobil treasurer, a democracy fighter, a one-time American habitue, a governor, initiator of a political movement with the APC, et al. They look at him, and they decide on one story, an arbitrary pigeon-holing. They do same to Shettima, but the man is a former banker who enjoyed triple promotion, a governor, a hero in the fight against Boko Haram, a senator. All they see is his sojourns in a mosque. No one has asked either what makes them tick, what powers their fancies. “I am part of all that I have met,” wrote poet Alfred Lord Tennyson. But the church turned the campaigns to Nigeria’s version of the Crusades, a series of blood-churning conflicts that convulsed Europe and immortalized names like Saladin and Peter the Hermit. Here they see it as a war of Christ against Mohammed on a partisan turf, as though that has ever changed the lives of the fellow citizens. They mistake Nigeria for the kingdom of God even though Jesus himself warned that “my kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then will my servants fight.” Yet these unassigned bishops and priests are conjuring a battlefield, stoking holy ghost fires, calling angels in heaven and demons from nether regions to duel where God has not blown a whistle. In the process, they abandon love and call fellow humans mad, a word that does not belong in the life of  a Christian tongue. The same cleric says members of that party also are members in the church. He must be breeding mad people under God? Making asylum with the word? The church in the process also worked hate among two major ethnic groups in the south, Yoruba and Igbo. In Lagos, it became a cauldron of distemper among the tribes. One hiding under a party and the other under the opposite name, it became a contest of supremacy that has nothing to do with whose ideas are superior. No grist for debate, no drill of ideas. A grudge match. Our democracy should not be about rage, but stating the case, an assembly of viewpoints and the winnowing of the great and the willowing of the stains. What we need now, as we await results  is a plea for peace. The BVAS is all we have. The technology has for most part delivered. Some of us had anticipated the repeat of the Osun story, where it failed to reconcile platforms. It seems INEC has learned and we can earn our democratic dividends in peace. All those who dispute can do the right thing: Go to court. You don’t need to give the other fellow an uppercut.