Lagos State chapter of the Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria (ACPN) has called for the full implementation of the Pharmacy Council of Nigeria (PCN) law to enable the regulatory arm of the council, Pharmaceutical Inspection Committee (PIC) discharge its duty.  Speaking at the association’s annual general meeting on Wednesday, the chairman, Pharm Lawrence Ekhator, said that the PIC is the arm of PCN that helps to regulate pharmacist practice especially community pharmacist practice in Nigeria. This is coming after the High Court stopped the PCN from sealing shops belonging to some illegal drug outlets.  He said: “The pharmaceutical council law is a law we have clamouring for years as pharmacists and we are grateful to the president for deeming it fit to sign into law before his exist come May 2023. What we want as community pharmacist is the full implementation of the law with regard Pharmaceutical Inspection Committee (PIC).  “We need to strengthen the law as it has been constituted to strengthen the PIC so that it can carry out its statutory functions as entrenched by law in regulating pharmacy practice in the nation which includes the patent medicine vendors and community pharmacists. “In addition, the law strengthens the PIC to begin to regulate even hospital pharmacy practice both in private and public hospitals whereby they can begin to enforce good pharmacy practice in hospitals. It means that any hospital pharmacist that is not registered by the Pharmacy Council should not be allowed to practice. So all pharmacies, everywhere drugs are stored in the nation whether, in the hospital, industry, community or patent medicine vendors, the new law allows the Pharmacy Council to regulate.  “We are asking that this regulation be put in place so that the PIC can fully exercise what has been confined on him by law to do which is to make sure that pharmacy practice in all its aspects and ramifications anywhere and everywhere it is across the nation is regulated by the Pharmacy Council through the instrumentality of the PIC,” he said.  Part of the association’s agenda was on the expired drug destruction discrepancy with the National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration (NAFDAC). Ekhator said that community pharmacists in true conscience can’t pay to destroy a product that they have lost money on through expiration.  “For us, we see it as double jeopardy and cannot afford to do it and even choose to do it, we should pay a minimal cost. Currently, NAFDAC says that drug destruction has been gazetted and that there are statutory fees and as community pharmacists, we are saying that those fees are not tandem with what we believe is good pharmacist practice in the sense that we have to pay millions to destroy products that we have already lost money on.  “We are calling on NAFDAC and the Ministry of health and even the food and drug department of the ministry to look into the issue and endeavour to  make sure that community pharmacists get their expired drug products destroyed at minimal cost because as community pharmacists one of our slogan is to empower the community pharmacists to protect the people and we gave voluntarily decided to bring out these expired products to be destroyed by NAFDAC, we are aware that there are many open drug market that doesn’t carry out this exercise but we as a responsible professional have decided that it is our core mandate to protect the people but we found out that a situation where we are trying to do the right thing we are been slammed a heavy fine to do the right thing and this is not acceptable to us,” he said.