Dr Cosmas Ilechukwu is the General Secretary of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) and General Overseer, Charismatic Renewal Ministries, Worldwide, in this interview with Adeola Ogunlade, speaks on why PFN has been non-partisan in the 2023 election, why some pastors are directing congregants on who to vote for, and how Nigeria must respond when INEC announces the result. Excerpts: This election has been one that has raised a lot of concern in many people’s hearts and from the Christian point of view; it is one election that has elicited intensive prayers from across denominations. Praying fundamentally for three things: number one for us is that the elections should be peaceful without bloodshed, without anything and very free so that people can go out on their own and vote. Number two is that we are also praying for the will of God; that God’s own man that will restore Nigeria to its path to greatness should be elected to be president. That all the men with negative antecedent should not be voted again – that people who have questionable character, who have question marks on their integrity should not be voted. That men who are greedy, who are good at usurping our common wealth should not be elected. We are praying that God will give us a man with capacity; a man with compassion, a man that can unite the fragmented nation that we have today. The third facet of our prayer is that the electoral umpire, which is the INEC, will create a level playing ground for all the contestants to contest. There should not be any form of cheating or any form of manipulation of the electoral process and that everything will be done neatly and transparently. The addendum to these is a post-election petition and legal battles, that the repeat of the travesty of justice that imposed a governor on Imo State will not be repeated in this election – that the will of the people will prevail. That is what we have been praying for and that is what we expect to happen in this election. The PFN does not control the opinions and decisions of individual members. As a corporate body, we have chosen to be nonpartisan; but individuals have a right to express their own franchise by making their own personal choices. For example, I’m going to vote – I won’t vote for the three of them, I will vote for one person; so, I have a preference. So, if I have a preference all the people around me in my capacity as an individual – I can air my view, and I can give my suggestions to them. But, PFN as a body and CAN as a body will not be able to endorse a particular candidate because all of these parties have members in CAN and there are people in PFN that have sympathy for different political parties, and so the best thing for us is to remain neutral. We know that every single one of us has our sympathy which will guide our voting and as a body, we cannot pontificate on that. Well, I don’t know what has happened that necessitates the pastors engaging the powers and the pastors dodging it. We have always spoken up on issues that are worthy of speaking. But, you don’t expect the pastors to be involved in every gossip in the society. When something weighty comes up, we always make a statement, and you will see the PFN by the pages of newspapers to articulate our points. I don’t trust our Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has allowed itself to be so politicised that its judgment is no longer weighty. So, I am personally not interested in what their judgment is going to be. They have shown themselves to be people that can be influenced by every Dick and Harry. My advice to Nigerians is to remain calm when the election result is announced. There is no point taking up arms and destroying properties, rioting, and causing mayhem in society. Nigerians have been traumatised enough – when the election result is announced, we should just take it in good faith. And that people that lose today can win tomorrow. Lent is a period of 40 days spanning from Ash Wednesday to Good Friday during which Christians reflect on the redemptive sufferings and death of Christ. During lent Christians seek to identify with the sufferings of Christ through a lifestyle of repentance, abstinence, and prayers by the faithful. My admonition to Nigerian Christians is to utilise the opportunity of the Lenten period to repent of our personal and corporate sins as a people, and for God’s mercy on our nation. It is expected that devout Christians across Nigeria will use the Lenten period as a time of reflection based on the biblical teachings leading up to the death and resurrection of Christ. For the next six weeks in Christendom, the faithful will gather in congregations to worship, pray and reflect on the biblical accounts of the sacrifices Jesus Christ made as he wandered in the desert where he fasted 40 days and 40 nights. Lent is about sacrifice, and the significance of the period as Christians is that it offers us an opportunity through prayer, abstinence, and alms giving, to open ourselves to greater communication with God. Therefore, in depriving ourselves by abstaining from food and drink, we connect to the suffering of Christ first, in the wilderness and later on the cross where he pays the price for our sins and in this election, that the will of the people will prevail. That is what we have been praying for and that is what we expect to happen in this election.