Nollywood stars and social media influencers Kate Henshaw, Deyemi Okanlawon, Eniola Adeoluwa, have encouraged and motivated young Nigerians to come out massively to vote. The #MyVoiceMyVote campaign during an Instagram Live session on Thursday highlighted the importance of voting and encouraged voters to cast their ballots in the upcoming presidential election, while actively encouraging others to do the same. The virtual town hall-themed “MyVoice, MyVote” campaign was powered by a fast-rising data-led marketing agency. It had speakers from the majority of the voting demographics (Kate Henshaw- Gen X, Deyemi Okanlawon – Millennial, Eniola Adeoluwa – Gen Z). The Celebrities who all lent their support to the campaign, urged people to show up on election day to make their voices heard. Kate Henshaw said: “The youth are in a position of power when it comes to numbers. “Talking to the people closest to you, i.e  word of mouth, is the most effective way to convince them that this is their civic responsibility.” Deyemi Okanlawon and Enioluwa Adeoluwa noted that Nigerians must think well about the next eight years of their life and not take the Elections like the Big Brother Naija competition while reiterating that the PVC is the change tool they have. Daniel Afolayan, Co-founder of Whyfinite, also reiterated that the aim of the #MyVoiceMyVote campaign is To encourage and motivate eligible voters, especially young and new voters who might not feel as engaged in the political process,  to cast their ballots in the upcoming presidential election Nigeria has witnessed a high surge of youth eligible voters (40%) for the 2023 presidential election. The #MyVoiceMyVote campaign’s central message is that “Every vote counts, and it’s up to us to make our voices heard. By casting our ballots, we can shape the future and create a better world for ourselves and future generations” In closing, Deyemi Okanlawon thanked the Organisers, WhyFinite for leading such political conversations and encouraged similar organizations to do the same.