With the rains approaching, and last year’s disastrous floods fresh in the minds of many Nigerians, it is important to pay serious attention to the official flood forecasts for this year. The disturbing forecasts underline the need for urgent action to avoid a repeat of last year’s devastation and its consequences.     According to the Minister of Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu, “The forecasts for 2023 show that 178 local government areas (LGAs) in 32 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) fall within the high flood risk areas.” He said: “224 LGAs in 35 states, including FCT, fall within the moderate flood risk areas. The remaining 372 LGAs fall within the low flood risk areas.” The minister painted this concerning picture while presenting the Federal Government’s 2023 Annual Flood Outlook (AFO) on February 17.  He listed the high flood risk states: Adamawa, Abia, Akwa-Ibom, Anambra, Bauchi, Bayelsa, Benue, Cross-River, Delta, Ebonyi, Ekiti, Edo, Gombe, Imo, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Kebbi, Kogi, Kwara, Lagos, Nasarawa, Niger, Ogun, Ondo, Osun, Oyo, Rivers, Sokoto, Taraba, Yobe, Zamfara, and the Federal Capital Territory. This year’s rains are expected to begin in April and end in November, he said, adding that the level of floods in the first category “is expected to be high in terms of impact on the population, agriculture, livelihood, livestock and infrastructure.” It is unclear if the concerned authorities across the country are adequately prepared for the predicted floods. Lack of preparation was an issue last year, as floods described as the worst since 2012 devastated many parts of the country. Reports said the floods affected 33 of Nigeria’s 36 states. Official figures indicated that the floods displaced more than two million people, killed more than 600 and injured more than 3,000. In addition, flooding destroyed vast agricultural land, disrupted fuel supplies, and caused food price increases. Also, it caused contamination of water sources that led to a cholera outbreak in the northeast of the country, which took more than 60 lives.    The Federal Government had blamed the disaster on unusually heavy rains and climate change, suggesting that the main contributory factors were beyond human control.  But that didn’t tell the whole story.  The Federal Government’s non-completion of the Dasin Hausa Dam in Adamawa State had aggravated the flooding. Nigerian authorities had an agreement with the Cameroonian government to build the dam in order to contain the overflows resulting from the recurrent release of water from the Lagdo Dam in Cameroon.  The construction of the Lagdo Dam started in 1977 and was completed in 1982.  More than 40 years later, the Dasin Hausa Dam remains uncompleted.  The Federal Government should be blamed for such an inexcusable delay that worsened flooding in Kogi, Benue and other states in the northeast last year. The situation means that history may repeat itself this year. Other identified problems that exacerbated the flooding last year were arbitrary construction on natural flood plains and storm water paths, and poor drainage systems, which were compounded by weak enforcement of environmental regulations. The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq, was reported saying “there was enough warning and information about the 2022 flood,” and alleged that local governments, states, and communities failed to act on the warnings. Also, last year, the Director-General of National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Mustapha Habib Ahmed, had stressed the need for every state to set up a State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) and local emergency committees, and fund them adequately. In 2016, NEMA had said there were no emergency management agencies in 11 states. It is unclear if the situation has changed positively.  After last year’s devastating floods, the federal, state, and local governments should have worked towards improving flood control in the country before the next rains. Whether or not that happened will be known during the rainy season. Flood management is crucial because the rains come and go.