SIR: As Nigerians await the outcome of last Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC), deserves commendation for conducting free and fair election. Though, the election witnessed delays in voting and pockets of violence in some states, it can be adjudged as peaceful. Eligible youths of voting age and other voters came out en masse to cast their vote. President Muhammadu Buhari should take a credit for signing the electoral bill into law which paved the way for the deployment of technology in the conduct of elections in the country. With the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BIVAS), voters were accredited with relatively ease, leading to the conduct of free, fair and transparent polls. Equally mentioning is the naira redesign policy which curtailed votes buying. There was departure from excessive use of cash by money bags politicians. In fact, the elections did not witness the use of money as obtained in the previous polls. The political culture has changed leading to the change of voting patterns. With this development, one can confidently say that our over two decades of democracy has improved significantly. INEC has started announcing the results of presidential and National Assembly elections. Winners have continued to emerge from different constituencies in the country. As usual, it is expected that the winners should be magnanimous in victory while losers should accept the outcome of the results in good faith. In any election, there must be a winner and loser. Desperate politicians should refrain from making unguarded utterances capable of igniting crises. If they have genuine cases of proven irregularities arising from the just concluded elections, they should take them up to elections tribunal to be inaugurated to entertain elections matters. This is best option to seek for redress instead of recruiting thugs to foment trouble or mayhem. It has also been reported that INEC’s server was slow in uploading the election results. The hitches should be hurriedly addressed in order to provide Nigerians with accurate and reliable elections results. INEC should fix this problem before the March 11 gubernatorial elections. There is no gainsaying that the incidences of rigging which marred previous elections in the past have been minimised if not completely eliminated. INEC has become an independent and unbiased institution. Through various reforms and innovations, INEC operates like its contemporaries in developed countries. Nigerians pray that INEC will maintain the momentum in the subsequent elections. • Ibrahim Mustapha, Pambegua, Kaduna State.