SIR: The arrest of pro-Biafra separatist, Simon Ekpa by the Finnish authorities is a welcome development. This is coming on the heels of calls by Nigerians all over the world for him to be apprehended and made to account for his hate-filled and inciting rhetoric which has unleashed an orgy of gruesome killings and destruction of properties in the Southeast. I commend the federal government for heeding the cry of Nigerians and liaising with its Finnish counterpart to do the needful which is a step in the right direction towards restoring peace to the Southeast. Simon Ekpa though a Nigerian by birth is also a Finnish citizen and the possibility of him being extradited to Nigeria for trial is very slim. The Finns are renowned for providing cover for all manner of separatist groups and hardly extradite their citizens to other nations for trial no matter their crimes. Therefore, the Nigerian government should push for his trial in Finland under international terrorism laws the same way they did with the Niger Delta militant, Henry Okah who is currently languishing in jail in South Africa. Not demanding for his repatriation to Nigeria will also avoid making him a symbol of resistance like his leader and mentor, Nnamdi Kanu. The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), which both Kanu and Ekpa belong to is a proscribed organisation and has been fingered as the brains behind the current wave of insecurity in the Southeast. The federal government should go beyond just arresting its leaders and start going after their sponsors and collaborators both locally and internationally. The security agencies should liaise with their foreign counterparts to get information about those Nigerians and foreigners who are the brains behind this group and move against them through arrests, freeze their assets and place ban on their visas. A holistic approach towards tackling this hydra-headed monster is the only recipe for restoring lasting peace in the Southeast. •Peter Ovie Akus, New Jersey, USA.