More soldiers and  Armoured Personnel Carriers (APCs) were sighted in Lagos yesterday as tension rose over declaration of results of Saturday’s presidential election by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Their presence was more noticeable on Lagos Island where there were reports of attacks on traders at Balogun and Mandilas markets as well as Abibu Oki Street. Reports also filtered in about extortion of private motorists in Surulere, Ilaje and Victoria Garden City (VGC) near Ajah. Other areas with soldiers were Mushin, Ikeja, Ebute Meta, Oshodi,   Cele. and   Mile Two The Nation gathered the development also followed intelligence report that some people were planning mayhem across the state. The state had, three days before the presidential poll, witnessed presence of APCs and soldiers on strategic roads.  Yesterday evening, Police spokesman, Benjamin Hundeyin,  warned that attempt to wreak havoc on any part of  the state would be resisted.   Hundeyin, in a Tweet, said: “Intelligence suggests some people have concluded plans to foment trouble and wreak havoc. “Kindly note that such attempts would be crushed. Our election security architecture has not been drawn down. Anarchy will not be allowed!. Residents should remain law-abiding and  be guided!.” On Balogun and Mandilas incidents, Hundeyin said: “The market association agreed that shops would remain closed yesterday (Sunday) and today(Monday). Igbo traders this (today) morning decided to renege on the agreement and open shops. “Some hoodlums took it upon themselves to enforce compliance. The police were alerted. “The hoodlums fled on sighting police vans. Not one shop was vandalised. Not one person was robbed. Not one person was injured. Normalcy was returned and officers remained on the ground.’’ “Don’t fall for tribal bigotry. The complaint was Igbo were being attacked and robbed. “I investigated and found  Igbo traders were chased away by hoodlums over their insistence to open shops … despite an agreement by that shops would not open.”.   The Nation reporter who visited some parts of the metropolis observed that most business outlets were shut down.