By the time this article is published, the presidential and National Assembly elections would have been conducted. Hopefully also, their outcome would have become public knowledge. And as usual with such contests, the elections would have been lost and won. Thus, some of the issues being canvassed here will have to contend with what actually happened in the field on the day of the elections. Given the fluidity of the situation under which this article is written, it is difficult to be precise on the way events will unfold on the day of the elections. That notwithstanding, it is vital to highlight certain critical factors to the elections for ease of assessment of the level of progress made on the democratic chart. These issues are not entirely new as they were copiously canvassed before the elections. The way they play out on the day of the elections will serve as a veritable benchmark for assessing the overall preparedness of the relevant agencies of the government to bequeath an election that is substantially free, fair and credible. The elections will offer us the opportunity to interrogate all the assurances from the relevant agencies of the government that they have taken adequate care of these anticipated challenges to ensure that the polls hold in an atmosphere devoid of official connivance and malpractices, intimidation and violence.   In a matter of this nature, the first focus should be on the electoral umpire-the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC. Logistics: the credibility of the elections will inexorably hinge on timely distribution of election materials across the country. In the past, we had situations certain electoral districts waited for hours before election materials were made available to such centres. This led to late commencement or even postponement of voting to the following day.  Situations that usually give rise to all manner of accusations of bias against the electoral body must not be allowed to rear up their ugly heads. Timely and contemporaneous distribution of election materials will go at lengths to ensure the credibility and acceptability of the elections. INEC will be facing serious test in this regard. Technology: Much of the optimism that the presidential and National Assembly elections will mark a sharp departure from our putrid electoral past is hinged on the deployment of technology for the conduct and transmission of election results. Here, the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System BVAS comes into focus. BVAS will ensure that only registered and accredited voters are allowed to vote on the day of the election. By this arrangement, much of the electoral malpractices that hitherto took place at the polling units would be eliminated as only validly accredited voters are allowed to vote. The BVAS will come into very serious performance test not only in terms of its functionality but challenges that may be presented by poor network services from the service providers especially in very remote areas of the country.  The BVAS holds the key to the overall success of the elections. There should be no room for excuses as its outcome could be very dire. INEC did test trials of the functionality of the BVAS in selected areas and came up with a successful verdict. It will obviously send wrong signals to hear that the BVAS deployed to some areas could not be of much help for one reason or the other. Insecurity: the challenges posed by insecurity are multidimensional. This is not just a challenge to the INEC but the country’s security architecture. The country is assailed by all manner of insecurity across the country. As we were going to the polls, critical segments of the country still remained under the control of sundry non-state actors. There are local governments and districts that political parties could not take their electoral campaigns to on account their volatility. That much was even admitted by a key official of the INEC when he warned that if nothing was done to check the insecurity in certain states, elections may not hold in very significant constituencies such that may lead to inconclusive outcomes and possible constitutional crisis. That prospect is high. The security agencies have offered copious assurances on their capacity to guarantee a safe environment for the elections. The facts remains that many of those areas were still largely unsafe on the eve of the elections. Political assassinations, killings and attacks on key candidates were still recorded in some states few days to the polls. Presumably, the INEC intends to hold elections in these very volatile constituencies. How it intends to ferry personnel and materials to areas which the political parties were afraid to campaign remains largely curious. In one of such states, a kite was flown that voters would be assembled at the local government headquarters to cast their votes. The idea could not fly but it demonstrated the dire security situation in such areas. It will be very interesting to know how INEC was able to navigate this huge security challenge to conduct elections in such constituencies. So both the INEC and the security agencies will be facing serious test on the manner of elections conducted in areas prone to high level of insecurity. The security challenge also comes from the dimension of the impartiality of the security agencies. How the security agencies perform their jobs devoid of manifest partiality is also at issue. The security agencies will be tested against the background of their neutrality and impartiality. There is equally a new dimension of the security challenge that would be on test on the day of the polls. The quasi security outfits set up by some state governments to complement the efforts of the federal government in combating rising criminality will come into serious public focus. Before the elections, allegations were rife that some of the states have secretly been deploying such security units to hound political opponents. They have also been fingered in many of the unresolved killings across some of the states.  Whether they will become willing tools to hound the opposition and manipulate the elections is also in contention. The undue influence of money in politics is another source of concern. Part of the justification for the currency redesign and cashless policy of the government was to reduce the influence of money (vote buying) during this particular election. A lot of noise has been made on the propriety of the policy given the hardship it brought to the citizenry. The election will show whether the new policy was able to prevent vote buying or politicians invented new avenues to circumvent the policy and continue business as usual. It will be a measure of the preparedness of the political class to part ways with a decadent order that has kept this country down overtime.  But more fundamentally, how much progress the country has made in national integration will also come into serious test by the outcome of the polls. With the major candidates of the political parties coming from the three dominant ethnic groups in the country, the continued role of primordial, ethnic and religious sentiments in influencing voting patterns will come into serious assessment. It will be interesting to know which factors played key roles in the pattern of votes secured by the major contenders. If it happens that voting pattern followed primordial lines, it would be a big statement on whatever progress this country has recorded in national integration 62 years after independence. That will also give a clue to the enormity of the challenges in forging a common sense of national identity, peace and progress of the country. It comes as a defining election.