SIR: Time and change as scholars have argued, have provided the best barometer to measure the value of persons playing in the public space. To drive home this aphorism, civil rights crusader, Martin Luther King Jnr in the 1960s in the United States puts it simply that the true test of a man is where he stands in times of crisis and controversies. Herein lies the sampling of the man Governor Nasir El – Rufai. Although, misunderstood by many, yet rides in his enigma. I have been following the track record of Governor El Rufai.  Well-educated and endowed with uncommon native intelligence, the governor has proven himself in every assignment he has handled the ability to turn difficult situations around.  For example, Abuja, then an unplanned capital city, was turned around when El Rufai became the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) minister.  Kaduna, which has been down for decades, has suddenly woken up to take her rightful place in the North politically and in development.  The voice of the occupant of Kaduna Government House resonates not only in the North, but across Nigeria.  After overcoming the initial hurdles of the first lap of four years of his administration by those who placed higher premium on politics as a thriller game rather than  a means to meeting the critical needs of those they are elected to serve, he settled in the second lap to offer the purposeful leadership he promised the electorate. Kaduna has rapidly overtaken Kano and Bauchi with a well-laid road network, Bus Rapid Transportation system and light rail, spiced with two malls in good locations to race to a finishing line topping in infrastructural upgrade and human capacity development. To achieve these, ethnic origin and religion played no part; only the capacity to deliver does. True, El Rufai has been helped mainly by the assemblage in his executive council, who were selected from virtually every nook and cranny of Nigeria with a common identity of competence and performance.  The governor’s role in changing the narrative in the North is determined by his national outlook that Nigeria belongs to all, not a section of it.   Besides, El Rufai’s report on the Constitutional Review on Devolution of Power has positively calmed frayed nerves and shaped the political architecture across the nation with a reassured sense of equity for all. His distinguishing trait is his courage to take tough decisions in the interest of the common good for the common people. Some time ago, when he found the quality of teachers in the state appalling, the governor never ran away from taking a tough decision, by asking the teachers to take basic aptitude test of competence to retrain them where appropriate and injecting capable hands    Amid security challenges, though not peculiar to Kaduna, El Rufai has attracted a lot of foreign investments to some communities in the state with Olam, Nigeria and Sub-Sahara Africa’s largest hatchery/animal feed mill, leading the pack of other investors. Also, the World Bank is a prominent ally in development in the state. El Rufai is undoubtedly, one to watch as he shares the unique character of a meteor that appears only for a purpose in a wide space of time, leaving a trail of impact on the landscape.  My wish for this governor is many years of sacrificial service to our fatherland.  •Titus Ajimobi,  Lagos.