Cotton seed production across the country has witnessed a positive growth trajectory in the last three years following accelerated increase in yields, The Nation has learnt. Confirming this development was the President, National Cotton Association of Nigeria (NACOTAN) Anibe Achimugu. According to him, between the 2019-2022 seed cotton production has increased from 80 to 133,000, as its inclusion in the Anchor Borrowers program has resuscitated the sector. Achimugu said the wisdom to focus on cotton farming has increased the number of cotton farmers under NACOTAN from 67,000 in 2019 to more than 200,000 in 2022. Ginning factories that were moribund have increased from 7-23 as they operate at improved capacities, pointing that workers are always at work with wages paid as at when due. The NACOTAN President disclosed this at the Nigerian International Cotton Summit and Expo 2023 with its celebration of the 25th anniversary of NACOTAN in Abuja, lamenting that lack of purpose and foresight by some stakeholders led to importation of textiles and garments into the country. Again Achimugu said, the Executive order 003 by President Muhammadu Buhari mandating military, para-military to obtain their uniforms locally has been very helpful in resuscitating the sector.” “In our efforts to increase production NACOTAN captured farmers in 33 states of Nigeria, introduced the Mycho cotton seeds, which also increased cotton output for farmers from yields of 250kg to 770kg on average per hectare.” Digitised our data and operations, purchased 93 brand new John Deere tractors and implements which allowed us to experiment contagious large scale mechanized cotton farming with the support of NALDA and Plateau State government. The Minister, Industry Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo said, the ministry is fully committed to providing the enabling environment that will showcase Nigerian Industries both locally and internationally.  The Ministry in collaboration with the Ministry of Information and Culture, Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON), is working towards ensuring Nigerian Entrepreneurs, Manufacturers and other SMES comply with quality, packaging and labeling standards for Made in Nigeria products and Services to access both local and international markets.