Minister of Transportation, Mu’azu Sambo, obviously desired a new impetus to the on-going port reforms when he handed out some guidelines to companies seeking renewal of ports concessions. “The companies”, the minister told the executives of the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), “must show satisfactory evidence of performance and meet key performance indicators and other obligations incumbent on them’”. Port reforms, he added, as if to remind them, were meant to achieve efficiency in ports operations, increase cargo traffic and improve revenue, hence these would count foremost in the renewal considerations. His charge to NSC was unequivocal: “Get the ports concession agreements that were signed in 2006, identify all key performance indicators for each terminal due for renewal. Look at their performance in terms of meeting these key KPIs, including development plans, cargo traffic, revenues and other obligations that were incumbent on them’”. Fair enough. However, with due respect to the minister, those guidelines would appear to be coming a bit late in the day. We have certainly been on this route long enough to wonder when things will begin to happen in a sector said to hold the key to unlocking the nation’s vast treasures. Before now, we have heard the chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Ports, Harbours and Waterways, Patrick Asadu, expressing the view that the agreements, signed some 17 years ago were no longer tenable, particularly as he claimed that they were done in the personal interest of people that signed them. Even the president of the National Council of Managing Directors of Licensed Customs Agents, NCMDLCA, Lucky Amiwero, had at some point decried the lease agreements, which he insisted went against the law establishing the Nigerian Ports Authority, NPA, as the law does not allow for a lease agreement that is more than five years. Only last year, the NPA management was on record as bemoaning not just the decaying infrastructure at the entities but the inability of the operators to turn the situation around. Last year, NPA’s Managing Director, Mohammed Bello-Koko, gave the operators a six-month grace to fulfil all conditions for renewal or risk severe penalties – a period that has since expired. Nigerians can only wonder if anything has been done by the NPA since then to get things straightened out. The point is – there are already sufficient grounds on which the so-called agreements had become not only indefensible but quite frankly, anachronistic. As Nigerians very well know, the story of the concessioning, just like that of our ports system itself, has become another tragic story of failed dreams and misplaced expectations. If Nigerians expected better service outcomes post-concessioning, the turnout has been terribly disappointing. Aside falling miserably short in the area of facility development, the operators would appear to have stopped at the point of those promises made in their MoUs, hence the poor state of those facilities and, by extension, the below par service they render. The situation explains the continuing attraction to neighbouring ports by our importers. The issue at stake in the circumstance appears quite simple and straight-forward. To the extent that most of the current concessionaires have not, in the past 17 years, proven their mettle in terms of delivering the world-class services expected of them, the focus now should be about throwing the process open to more serious players that have both the financial muscle and the technical proficiency to deliver world-class services. And, while those among the current crop of players are free to apply, only a rule-based, truly competitive process can ensure that only those bringing values to the table are brought on board. The earlier the process is kicked off, the better it would be for the sector and the country as a whole.