Emerging Markets Telecommunication Services (EMTS), operating as 9mobile, recently announced the addition of Victor Nwaobia as Chief Sales Officer to its leadership team. In his new role, Nwaobia will be part of the executive management team and will be responsible for driving the company’s sales strategies, initiatives, and objectives across the Consumer Sales Channels, Enterprise Business, and Retail Experience. The Nigerian telecommunications industry is witnessing massive network expansions, and 9mobile is expanding its capacity and capabilities to offer its customers advanced end-to-end products, services, and solutions. Through his experience and expertise, Nwaobia will support 9mobile’s efforts to build meaningful customer connections and unlock the next phase of technology solutions for transformation and future growth. Nwaobia, a sales and marketing strategist, has rich experience in commercial functions with expertise in telecommunications, FMCG, pharmaceuticals, gaming, sports betting, and general consulting. He is passionate about driving business growth and enhancing business operations and revenue through initiating and implementing strategic marketing and sales initiatives. Commenting on the appointment, 9mobile’s Chief Executive Officer, Juergen Peschel, said, “9mobile is one of the industry’s leading service providers, delivering innovative communication solutions for our customers to fulfil their personal and business objectives. “Victor spent a long time in the commercial units of 9mobile, spanning over 10 years before leaving to pursue other businesses. We are excited to have him back to deplore his wealth of business experience and legacy knowledge of our business in driving our consumer Sales and Services teams,” Peschel concluded.  Speaking on his appointment, Nwaobia said, “9mobile is well positioned and has the potential to drive the next generation digital transformation with its unique and innovative service offerings. I look forward to working with the team in unlocking the unique potentials and building upon the team’s success to create value for our customers and deliver on our purpose of transforming lives through digital networks via our products and services.”