The United States (U.S.A) has announced a new visa regime for Nigerians. In a statement yesterday, the U.S said Nigerian tourists visa applicant are now eligible for five years (60 months) visa as against two years (24 months) under the previous visa regime. The new regime, according to the statement, takes effect from Wednesday, March 1, 2023. The American government’s action followed Nigeria’s recent policy of visa reciprocity with the U.S. The statement, which was issued by the U.S. Embassy, reads: “Effective March 1, 2023, the U.S. Mission will increase visitor visa validity from 24 months to 60 months for Nigerians who want to enter the United States temporarily for business and/or tourism.  “The visa validity extension allows Nigerians to use the visa for 60 months to make short trips to the United States for tourism or business purposes before having to renew their visa.  “The visa application fee, currently USD160, will not increase as a result of the increased visa validity. “Increasing visa validity is one of several initiatives taken by the United States to reduce visa appointment wait times in Nigeria. The U.S. Mission continues to offer No-Interview Visa Renewals to those who meet the eligibility criteria. Appointments for No-Interview Visa Renewals are readily available.” The statement also listed those eligible for no-interview for visa renewals. Those in category are applicants for a B1/B2, F, M, J (academic only), H, L, or C1/D (combined only) visa. Their eligibility depends on the following criteria: that applicant is physically present in Nigeria; that the previous visa was issued in Nigeria; that previous visa is in the same classification as your current application; that previous visa was a full-validity, multiple-entry visa; that the previous visa expired within the last 48 months or will expire in the next three months from the date of application; that passports covering the entire period since receiving the previous visa and the passport with the most recent visa; that the applicant has never been arrested or convicted for any crime or offence in the United States, even if you later received a waiver or pardon and that the applicant has never worked without authorisation or remained beyond your permitted time in the United States.