• The Supreme Courts decision upholds the legality of N500 and N1000 banknotes  Supreme Court has stood with suffering Nigerians as it put off the matter if the legal tender of the N500 and 1000 notes to March 3. Its interim order stands and so exposes the impunity of the federal government. The Buhari Administration and the Central Bank will do well to comply. It consolidated the cases filed by 10 states on the currency swap imbroglio. Last Wednesday, Justice John Okoro, the head of the seven-man panel exclaimed: “We are hearing this matter today. We don’t intend to keep this matter longer… whether they obey it or not.” More states have joined the three original plaintiffs, and the matter has been further adjourned to March 3, for judgment. Justice Okoro was reacting to counsel to Lagos State, Moyosore Onigbanjo, SAN, praying the court to prohibit the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, SAN, from defending the suit, arguing that “the issue of contempt supersedes issue of jurisdiction.” Justice Okoro replied: “you are not a stranger to this country. We don’t want a situation where the judiciary will be a scapegoat. We refuse to be the scapegoat.” The Federal Government and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) are facing contempt proceeding, for disobeying the order made by the apex court.  While awaiting the judgment of the court as promised, it is sad that the Federal Government continues to treat the clear ruling of the apex court with contempt. Without equivocation, the Supreme Court on February 8 made a restraining order of injunction against the February 10 deadline for swapping the old naira notes with new ones, which still stands. The Supreme Court said so, on February 15, following the complaint of Abdulkakeem Mustapha, SAN, counsel to Kaduna, Kogi and Zamfara states, on the life of the interim injunction. On February 8, the apex court made “an order of interim injunction restraining the Federal Government of Nigeria, either by itself or acting through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and/or commercial banks, its agents, agencies, corporations, ministries, parastatals, organisations or through any person or persons (natural and artificial) howsoever, from suspending or determining or ending on the 10th of February 2023 the timeframe within which the now older versions of 200, 500 and 1000 denomination of the naira may no longer be legal tender, pending the hearing and determination of the plaintiffs/applicants’ motion on notice for interlocutory injunction.” It is sad that despite the clear pronouncement of the Supreme Court, the Federal Government, the CBN and its other agents have failed to obey the order. In what some have interpreted as sitting on appeal over the Supreme Court’s ruling, President Muhammadu Buhari, in a broadcast the next day, insisted that the old 500 and 1,000 naira notes cease to be legal tender, while the N200 old note would be in use until April 10. The three original plaintiffs have since taken steps to bring contempt proceedings against the Federal Government and the CBN. Other states that have joined as plaintiffs are: Lagos, Ondo, Ekiti, Kano, Sokoto, Ogun, Cross River, Rivers, and the latest, Abia. There are also the states of Edo and Bayelsa which have joined as respondents with the Federal Government. While the legal fireworks are going on, the suffering of the masses are increasing in geometrical proportion. Many innocent citizens have lost their lives, and properties worth billions of naira destroyed.  The rage on the streets is justified, even though we appeal to Nigerians not to take laws into their hands. We are surprised that despite experiences across the world on time frame for currency demonetisation programme, the CBN misguided the Buhari regime to use a fire brigade approach on this matter. Again, despite Nigeria being a federation, the Federal Government refused to take the sub-national governments into confidence in making the policy; and to listen to their reports of monumental human suffering because of the poor handling.