The successful implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) is among the necessary tools for regional cooperation in the creative economy and the cultural industry in Africa.  International law and finance expert, Dr. Jennifer Douglas, who spoke at an event with the theme: The Creative Economy: Strategies for Advancing the Industry in Africa, on the sidelines of the African Union (AU) meeting, noted that AfCFTA encourages regional cross-pollination.  The finance expert said this would provide the opportunity to promote regional collaboration in the creative industry through co-production and joint projects.  She noted that AfCFTA encourages each country to build its own domestic market, adopt the economic pact to create one huge “domestic market” for creatives across the continent.  “With the expected increase in trade, a huge single African market for creative products should emerge,” she said.  Dr. Douglas, who is also Founder of Gede Foundation, said the core problem remains that the seduction of the creative industry has yet to embed the same way traditional industries, business and entrepreneurship has dominated the economy, even though the creative economy across Africa and the Middle East generated “$58 billion in 2013”.  A survey by Africa Filter Organisation on creative industry in 2022 found about 48 per cent of African youths ages 18 – 35 years believe a traditional career in sports, for example, is more lucrative than a career in the creative industry.  The report also found that 78 per cent of youths in that age range spent little or no money on arts and on cultural past-time.  “But the good news is that 82 per cent (up to 97 per cent in Nigeria and Kenya) of those interviewed admired the creative industry. The stats are important as youths are the propellers of the creative sector. How can we channel the 82 per cent admiration to concrete action? First address the core challenges,” she said.  The fellow of the Royal Society of Arts in England stressed that with accelerators, “we can copy from the equity market to build creative accelerators/incubators”.  She added: “When something works well in one sector, why not clone it for another sector? Then, we can tweak it for the real-life needs of creatives. Build exchanges for art auctions and platforms for policy advocacy. Build incentives for innovation that emerge from the incubators.”  African nations currently trade only about 15 per cent of their goods and services with each other, and the AfCFTA aims to boost that by 60 per cent by 2034 with the elimination of almost all tariffs.  During the opening session of the AU meeting, United Nations (UN) Secretary General Antonio Guterres had said: Africa needs action; first economic action. “Africa is rich in potential but it is not rich in global support. Investing in Africa’s prosperity requires finance and developing countries are repeatedly left in the dark. The global financial system routinely denies them debt relief and concessional financing while charging extortionist interest rates.” The International Labour Organisation (ILO) noted that given the nature of the informal economy in Africa, the potential for development opportunities is significant, particularly for youth employment. Africa is home to 23 per cent global youth population and will increase to 42 per cent by 2030, according to the ILO.  Advancing the industry has now become imperative.