It was a most gory and barbaric incident which negates all canons of decent and civilized behaviour. We refer to the premeditated murder, in cold blood, of 16 Nigerians in Burkina Faso when they were transiting through that country en route Kaolak in Senegal where they intended to observe the Islamic pilgrimage. According to eyewitness reports, the Nigerian pilgrims who were travelling in a convoy of luxury and mini-buses were flagged down and asked to disembark from the vehicles by Burkinabe soldiers who, thereafter, picked out some of them and shot them to death extra-judicially. President Muhammadu Buhari has commendably responded swiftly in condemning the killings, describing them as unacceptable and saying that the Nigerian authorities were awaiting the outcome of investigations into the incident by the Burkinabe authorities before knowing its next course of action. While the swiftness and vigour of the Nigerian government’s response is laudable, the point must not be lost on us that foreign countries are unlikely to treat Nigerian citizens any better and with greater respect than we do to our people at home. News of the routine murder of innocent citizens by murderous groups such as rampaging herdsmen, bandits, Kidnappers, terrorist networks and trigger-happy policemen, among others, give the country a bad image and makes Nigerians vulnerable to various degrees of dehumanising treatment outside the country. One of the most recent cases of such large-scale killings in Nigeria occurred in Gidan Gwanka and Gidan Damo communities in Kaduna State, where 71 innocent persons were brutally murdered. Similar stories of the sack of whole communities by herdsmen who killed and raped helpless residents and destroyed their farms and source of livelihood are rampant in Benue, Plateau and Nasarawa states, to name a few. President Buhari has condemned the latest massacre of citizens in Kaduna, describing the act as ‘horrific’ and paying tribute to the vigilantes and their families. He also pledged that no effort would be spared to apprehend and prosecute perpetrators of the dastardly killings. However, this has been the predictable response of the President to these killings which are occurring with increasing frequency across communities, particularly in the North Central zone. The more the state is able to effectively maintain law and order as well as protect the lives and property of the citizenry within the country, the more Nigerians abroad will be treated with respect and dignity. Indeed, a government that is seemingly indifferent to thousands of its citizens queuing for days at fuel stations in an elusive search for the commodity or massing at banking halls and ATM points in a futile attempt to access their own money will lack the moral credibility to ask other countries to respect its citizens. By treating its own citizens with respect and dignity, the government will be demonstrating to others how it expects her citizens to be protected anywhere in the world. Notwithstanding, we urge the Federal Government to follow up on this matter as it promised. It should not allow time to take it off focus. Whatever the outcome of the findings of the Burkinabe authorities cannot bring back our compatriots who had been allegedly murdered extra-judicially by some of that country’s security agents. But it should at least get justice for them and also somewhat comfort their relatives that their loved ones did not die in vain. The Federal Government is duty bound to  protect the interests, particularly of law-abiding Nigerians wherever they may be. Even where some of them break the laws of their host-countries, they should be apprehended and made to go through the rigours of the law there. Nigeria cannot just fold its arms when Nigerians are killed in cold blood as reportedly done in Burkina Faso.