Against all odds, the presidential and National Assembly elections were successfully held in Ogun State last week. Assistant Editor EMMANUEL BADEJO, who monitored the polls, writes on his experience. Saturday, February 25, 2023, had come and gone, but the political event that took place in Nigeria on that day, will go down memory lane. All political parties had two days earlier concluded their campaigns.  There was tension in the air, as the three major parties – the All Progressives Congress (APC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Labour Party (LP), had vowed to win the presidential elections. The trio had equally signed a peace agreement. There was quietness in the air.  The roads were empty. However, few military personnel were seen on the Lagos-Abeokuta major roads. For about a 67 kilometre journey, the army personnel were only at two locations, at Joju, Sango, in Ado-Odo/Otta, Local Government Area, and Papalanto in Ewekoro Local Government Area. They barricaded the road and turned a few passers-by back.  They were cordial in their approach. The ancient Abeokuta town, the capital of Ogun State, was unusually still. From Ado-Odo/Otta to Ewekoro to Odeda to Brewery and the heart of the town close to the Governor’s office at Ibara, the historic town of many firsts, was in a state of silence. It didn’t seem there was going to be the presidential election. Neither security personnel nor officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) were in sight. The town looked like a ghost city at 7 am. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo cast his vote at hisIkenne hometown. Osinbajo voted around 9:56 am alongside his wife, Dolapo Osinbajo, at Unit 14 Ward 1, Ojurege, Ikenne Local Government. The Vice President described the election as peaceful. The rumour that Osinbajo was not supporting the candidacy of Tinubu didn’t carry any weight as many of his kinsmen massively voted for the APC. In Remo, the hometown of the incumbent governor, Dapo Abiodun, and the PDP’s governorship candidate, Ladi Adebutu, election materials and some INEC staff didn’t arrive at the polling booths on time. Notwithstanding, elections were held in all the polling booths. Abiodun, who said the election process to be free and fair, however, lamented the inability of the electoral umpire to provide enough cards for his party agents. Abiodun decried the inability of INEC to provide enough cards for agents of the APC at various polling booths in the 2023 presidential and national assembly elections. He stated this after casting his vote at Ward 3, Unit 2, Ita-Osayin, in Iperu-Remo, Ikenne Local Government Area of Ogun State on Saturday. Abiodun said that the lack of adequate provision of the cards by INEC to APC’s agents for easy representation at polling units caused hitches in the election process in some parts of the state. He stressed that he was yet to confirm the cause, insisting on whether it applied to agents of other political parties in the state. He added that he was impressed by the turnout of the people at his polling units. The governor, however, thanked the commission for working hard during the election period, saying it was usual for INEC to have slight hitches because the election is a massive task for the electoral body. He, therefore, called on media professionals to show professionalism in their reportage of the election process, noting that he and the public depend on them for information during the election period. “From all that I have been told so far, it appears to be going well enough, there were a few hitches early this morning, which centred on the issue of agent identification and cards. I am told INEC did not provide enough cards for agents to identify themselves as they represent themselves at the various polling units. “I am yet to confirm what caused that; I am not sure whether this applies to all parties but our party agents have complained. But I believe that some arrangements have been worked out and you know voting has started and the voters’ turnouts are impressive, which is very exciting and everything seems to be peaceful. “I want to thank INEC for the hard work put into the process and obviously, taking up more responsibilities that we have in the past, so one must definitely appreciate what they have done. You know it is not unusual their slight hitches that are there, it is such tasks as massive as this and I am sure that at the end of the day, all will go well, even in the next election there will be an incumbent leader. But, the former governor of the state, Chief Olusegun Osoba, could not cast his vote due to inability of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) to capture both his face and finger prints at his polling unit 15 in Ward 14 at the Ibara GRA. While the INEC officials were trying to accredit the APC chieftain, a fight nearly broke out between some journalists and the INEC staff.  The sharp disagreement was due to an order by the commission’s official, directing the journalists to stay away from a particular location.  It however, took the quick intervention of Osoba to avert the brickbats that would have ensued. And after several trials, Osoba was turned back home.  He went back at about 2:11 pm and was denied again. The former governor while speaking with journalists at his polling unit, however, said he was not the only one who was denied accreditation by BVAS. He added that three other persons were also denied. The former governor said he would have loved to vote, but he does not want the votes of others to be voided because of one extra vote that was not recorded. “I have been here twice today, but the BVAS failed to capture my details and if I should go ahead to vote it may lead to cancellation of the huge turnout of voters of this unit. “I have decided to go because my name, and pictures in the voter’s card I used to vote in 2019 in this same unit have been denied by BVAS. But I don’t want it to show an extra vote cast that is not captured by the BVAS. “I feel sad very sad, but I am encouraged by the huge turnout of voters, including elders of age 80 and above who had come out to vote, it gives me courage that APC is closer to victory. When asked what he would do concerning continuous denial of BVAS, he said he has confidence in INEC and their technology. He expressed optimism that the commission will make sure their IT centers work better by March 11. Osoba said he felt very sad about his inability to exercise his civic duty. “I feel very, very, sad about the situation” but said he was happy with the large turnout of voters. “I am encouraged about the huge turnout, particularly, seeing many of our elderly citizens coming out in their large numbers, is indeed, an encouragement for me. This also convinces me that the APC is coasting to victory.  I have never seen such a large turnout voting in this place before.” The former governor notwithstanding, commenced INEC. “I have confidence in INEC, notwithstanding the technological failure.  I am aware that in this polling unit, it is just three or four of us that have been unlucky. That is not to say that INEC has not improved in its operational delivery.” He urged INEC to look into the technological challenge and resolve all issues so that every eligible Nigerian will not be denied of exercising their right. According to him, “In Obafemi Owode, it was observed that many of the electoral officers reported late to the polling booths. It was said that some of them had problems with transportation of election materials.  “But in terms of peaceful conduct of the voters and security, I want to say that I am impressed. “I want to congratulate everybody irrespective of party affiliation to be calm and not to allow minor issues to destroy what has happened so far.  I can say that, so far, the election has been very good. “You just saw how I pacified some of the voters who were aggrieved and about to degenerate into fisticuffs. You saw how I appealed to them and they all accorded me that respect and sheath their sword. Speaking with journalists shortly after his second failed voting attempt, Osoba said, “I have been here twice today and the BVAS failed. The BVAS did not capture my details and I have refused to vote because it may lead to the cancellation of the large turnout of votes in this polling unit if I decide to vote. “Notwithstanding that my name and picture was on the voters register and the card I used in 2019 successfully is the same card on this same unit, I don’t want to vote because I don’t want the BVAS to go and show the extra one vote cast that is not captured by the BVAS for this unit.” “I feel very very sad, but I was encouraged with the huge turnout, and particularly, many elderly citizens of between 70 to 80 years coming out to vote, gives me confidence that APC is close to victory. “I have confidence in INEC. It was just a technological failure, only two or three of us could not vote in this unit. Definitely we will do everything possible to make sure that the situation is reversed and ensure that the IT Centre makes sure that things work better. “The security performance is ok; INEC did well here.”