Global efforts at taming insecurity are forcing countries and their airport authorities to step up training, technology and exchange of intelligence information. Many authorities, including the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), are taking steps to handle such threats. KELVIN OSA-OKUNBOR reports AIRPORT authorities are driving safety in and around aerodromes. Reason: They believe safety is the greatest asset in the industry. To drive this agenda, countries are investing in human capacity development. In the last few years, experts are harping on the need for the government to block the gaps in manpower requirements in the safety space. To improve security, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) at the weekend graduated 381 cadets and instructors at Digital Bridge Institute, Kano. The security cadets completed the 13 weeks of training on the STP 123 Basic course in line with ICAO Standards and Recommended Practices (SARPs) and National Civil Aviation Security Training Programme (NCASTP). Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika said the cadets are a pride to the nation, reassuring that the Federal Government has taken the right step. Sirika, who was represented by the Director of Safety and Technical Policy, Captain Talba Alkali, said: “This level of commitment is evident before us in the successful completion of this training.. My profound gratitude goes also to the Management and staff of the Digital Bridge Institute, Kano for providing an enabling environment with state-of-the-art training facility which has accommodated the 381 cadets and instructors  in the last three months.” The Minister advised the graduands: “This should come to you as a clarion call to work within the precepts of the training. This training that you have received is expected to commit you to the level of dedication that is expected in ensuring that the nation of Nigeria will not only be proud but also reap the benefits of this well-organised training. “In acceptance to be trained as an aviation security cadet, you must realise that it is a privilege to serve your country at this level as the Aviation industry is one place where adherence and commitment to rules and standards are applied strictly to the letter.” Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, FAAN, Capt Rabiu Hamisu Yadudu said: “At a time of national security challenges, finding expression in myriad problems and threats such as terrorism, banditry, insurgency, kidnapping etc, the Aviation security STP 123 Training programme could not have come at a better time.” Capt Yadudu insisted that the programme would expose the graduates to modern ways of managing and reducing threats. Advising the new cadets, he said: “I also implore you not to rest on your oars. Rather you should begin to apply all that you have learnt during this training in the course of your duties at your stations. With commitment, focus and patriotic zeal, we will definitely reshape the course of aviation security and safety at our respective airports hence, taking it to greater heights.” The AVSEC Commander, Mallam Aminu International Airport, Kano, Mr Tanimu Danjuma Obashe, said they were trained by the institute, the Nigerian Immigration Training School, Kano and instructors from FAAN AVSEC. .