The Nigeria Association of Government Medical and Dental Practitioners (NAGMDP) at the General Hospital, Ilorin, have commenced two days strike over alleged assault on their colleague. Dr Ola Ahmed, chairman of the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), who spoke on behalf of the association, stated that the doctors were forced to down tools due to frequent threats to their lives. “After an emergency congress, the doctors have unanimously agreed that no doctor will work in the Hospital for 48 hours. We are tired of being a punching bag by the public,” he said. Ahmed stated that a sergeant attached to the mobile police unit attacked and assaulted one of the doctors at the general hospital. He explained that at around 5 pm on February 26, the doctor was assaulted at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology by a police sergeant who brought his sick wife for treatment. “The doctor conducted necessary tests and she was later discharged. The sergeant, however, came back to the hospital and attacked the doctor who examined his wife. “The sergeant alleged that the doctor did not seek his consent before examining his wife and that in his culture it is a taboo,” he said. Ahmed pointed out that the woman was not a minor but an adult, adding that there was a chaperone around before the test was conducted. He observed that the doctor sustained injury before he was rescued from the police officer. He however noted that the accused personnel had been arrested and presently detained by the Police. “It is terrible that this is happening to us. Our work load is much coupled with all the social issues including Naira and fuel scarcity. “We come to work as early as 7 a.m and go home late, and people we are trying to save are abusing and attacking doctors. “We have used all necessary means to enlighten the public through jingles, banners and talk shows on warning the public to desist from assaulting doctors. “Similar incident happened in University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital (UITH). If people are ready to take the law into their hands, we will not allow our doctors to die,” he said. Ahmed explained that they are not blaming the state government in any way, but merely safeguarding the lives of their members. Reacting to the development, Dr Bola Abdulkadir, the Chief Medical Director (CMD) of General Hospital, Ilorin, said that management was aware of the incident and is doing all it can to de-escalate the situation. Abdulkadir also confirmed that the state government was aware of the attack and is doing all it can to ensure the safety of doctors. “We appeal to them that the management and the state government is doing everything possible to prevent such a situation again. “The Consultants will continue to care for patients, so there will be skeletal services that will be rendered,” he assured. The CMD commended the efforts and sacrifice of all health workers in ensuring they save lives of people in the hospital. NSCDC arrests 19 suspects for looting rice truck in Kano The Kano State Command of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has arrested 19 suspects who allegedly looted a rice truck on Sunday in Kano. The Command Public Relations Officer, DSC Ibrahim Idris-Abdullahi, said in a statement on Monday that the suspects attacked the truck along Kano-Zaria Road. He said that the truck with registration number UGG 532 XA was loaded with hundreds of 50kg bags of rice from Alhamsad Rice Mill, located in Sharada, Kano. Idris-Abdullahi added that the truck was heading to Zaria in Kaduna State when the hoodlums attacked it and looted the bags of rice. “On receiving the report, operatives of the NSCDC swiftly mobilised personnel to the scene, arrested the suspects and 29 bags of rice were recovered from them. “The driver of the truck and his assistants were rescued unhurt,” Idris-Abdullahi said. The command spokesman said that the suspects would be charged to court after conclusion of investigation.