SIR: Nigeria’s journey to standardisation effectively began in 1971 with the establishment of the Nigerian Standards Organisation (NSO) as a department under the Federal Ministry of Industry. Birthed under Decree No 56 of 1971, tagged, the Standards Organisation of Nigeria, cap 412 of the Laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, SON had commenced operations on January 1, 1970 as Nigeria’s foremost standard regulatory body. Before the early 1990s, enforcement activities were primarily focused on local manufacturing companies. It was in the early 1990s that the organisation commenced inspection of imported products. It did this by joining the Customs Agency to carry out customs examination. Regardless of its weak functional structure at inception, the organisation managed to pull through, leaving traces of positive milestones. More than 50 years later, the organisation has endured a series of changes, including name change to Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) and amendments that have positioned the organisation to withstand and function effectively, despite the fast-evolving regulatory challenges and needs of the industries they were created to regulate. These changes, which were necessitated by a series of teething challenges faced by the organisation, have earned SON a place of pride in the class of global regulators of note.  A look at SON today would seem such problems never existed in the organisation, as it has been structured to handle current and emerging standardization challenges, especially to lead every process that relates to the preparation of standards for products, measurements, materials, and processes among others, and their promotion at the national, regional, and international levels. SON turned 50 in 2022, a milestone the organisation has celebrated even into the year 2023 with a sequence of activities including the launching of a Historical Compendium, exhibitions and landmark awards to deserving industry players to highlight the journey of SON from being a directorate to an agency of international repute. The Director General, SON, Salim Farouk used the occasion of the 50th anniversary celebration to chronicle SON’s evolutionary journey in time. He said, in over the last 50 years, SON has collaborated with industries to provide consumers with products fit for their purposes.  Going down memory lane, Salim said, “The quest for quality within the industry left staff faced with stiff challenges, including unavailability of utility cars, rundown cars, and traffic jams to undertake factory inspections which have been totally upturned with the provisions of conducive work environment, mobility, and equipment most especially for the state-of-the-art laboratories.” With the benefit of hindsight, the SON DG, Salim has said his vision for the organisation in the coming years is for it to be the foremost standardisation body in Africa and among the top-ranking globally. In readiness for the future that is ICT-dependent, Salim said SON, in late 2019 upgraded its online application portal for the operation of the offshore Conformity Assessment Program (SONCAP) for processing of imports into Nigeria. The transition of the SONCAP Portal has enhanced a seamless operation and more efficient service delivery to customers and stakeholders, within shorter turnaround time. To boost its operation, SON has established a Training Institute to provide an increased range of training beyond the Management Systems Standards for private and public sector organisations and institutions with regional branches for easier access by stakeholders and reduced costs. However, industry watchers and stakeholders are still of the view that more could still be achieved if the right steps are kept steady and new initiatives are taken. •Carl Umegboro, <umegborocarl@gmail.com>