The prestigious 2023 BNPA/GTCO Lagos International Polo Tournament that ended with pomp and ceremony  has been lauded as one of the biggest and the most exciting – in the country as it delivered on all fronts from sports to tourism and to  glamour. Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Oba of Lagos  Oba Rilwan Akiolu, the Italian Ambassador to Nigeria  Stefano De Leo, Business tycoons including chairman and CEO of the Dangote Group,  Alhaji Aliko Dangote as well as chairman of BUA Group , Alhaji  Abdulsamad Rabiu,  and a host of other high-ranking  dignitaries heaped  praises  on the  management of the country’s oldest polo club for hosting the annual fiesta that truly reflected the heritage of the sport of kings. Others who took turns to express their delights on high level of competitions and the awesome skills displayed by the participants during the international event, include the Chief of naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Zubairu Gambo, Amayanabo of  Toon Brass, King Diette Spiff and captains of industries led by the Chief Executive of GTCO Segun Agbaje , the lead sponsor of the grand festival that saw Lagos teams sweeping all the major laurels. The Chief of Naval Staff was particularly happy at the sportsmanship and discipline of the players during the polo fiesta, pledging that the Nigerian Navy will continue to deepen  its  partnership in promoting the noble game in Lagos across the country. With the standard of play reaching new heights, the 2023 edition of the Lagos polo festival lived up to the tournament’s billing as a truly global festival, with Bowale Jolaoso’s Leighton Kings and Funsho George’s’ GDF Global spearheading Lagos teams to an historic clean sweep of all the major titles. It should be  noted that  Leighton Kings victory in the  event’s biggest prize,  Majekodunmi Cup, Lagos Open Cup,  Independence Cup and Dapo Ojora memorial Cup respectively,   and GDF Global double sweep of Chief of Naval Cup and the Low Cup were the electricity the home teams needed to go all the way. Lagos Art Hotel and Trojan /ARK added the Oba of Lagos Cup and the Sani Dangote Memorial Cup. The solitary exception on the winners list was the Lintex -Intercontra team that edged newcomers and ambitious NexGen, to retain the Italian Ambassador’s Cup for the second year running.. Individual awards and Prizes were handed out to Bowale Jolaoso, Muyiwa Oni, Baba Dantata, Kunle Tinubu, Kayode Awogboro, Karl Alakija, among others for their distinguishing performances. Elated Lagos Polo Club President, Bode Makanjuola thumbed-up all the corporate and individual partners for promoting polo in Lagos while congratulating all the winners and runners-up on their successes. Tournament Manager, Mayowa Ogunnusi, promised that next year would get better as it has always been over the years adding that “it was a three week of thrilling polo experience for the lovers of the game.”