SIR:  “We must learn to live together as brothers or perish together as fools.” – Martin Luther King Jr.  The warriors are gearing up, preparing for the jungle ahead, and the drums begin to beat in the distance. The path ahead is rugged with obstacles and challenges lurking around every corner. We have walked this road before, and we know that the journey is not an easy one. General elections in Nigeria are not just a game, and we cannot entrust their outcome solely to the politicians. Nigeria is a country with so much potential, but it has been held back by decades of corruption, ethnic and religious tensions, and a general lack of leadership. One of the biggest challenges the country faces is ensuring free and fair elections, without violence and vote buying. Regardless of who wins the election, it is important to remember that violence should have no place in Nigeria’s democracy. It is essential to ensure free and fair elections, where every vote counts and is not influenced by money or intimidation. Nigeria needs leaders who can unite the country and work towards a common goal of making the country great again. These leaders can only come through a credible democratic process. One of the biggest challenges Nigeria faces is the issue of security. The country is plagued by terrorism, banditry, and kidnapping. It is important for the new president to take a tough stance on security and work towards ensuring the safety of all Nigerians. As Nelson Mandela once said, “No one is born hating another person because of the colour of his skin, or his background, or his religion. People must learn to hate, and if they can learn to hate, they can be taught to love, for love comes more naturally to the human heart than its opposite.” This statement holds true for Nigerians. While the election may be a time of heated political debate and differing opinions, it is crucial to remember that all citizens are ultimately working towards a better future for the country. The country has witnessed significant security challenges in recent years, and it is crucial for all Nigerians to embrace the ideals of peace, love, and harmony during this election. Let us remember the wise words of many leaders who have emphasized that peaceful elections are the foundation for a stable and prosperous democracy. The future of Nigeria depends on the ability of its citizens to shun violence and vote buying, and instead come together in the spirit of peace to build a brighter future for all. I would conclude this piece with another quote from Martin Luther King Jr. who once said, “Darkness cannot drive out darkness; only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate; only love can do that.” Let us choose love over hate, peace over violence, and progress over stagnation. Together, we can build a Nigeria that we can all be proud of. •Shafi’i Hamidu,  Doha.