With the unveiling of the much-awaited ISO-certified research laboratory complex by the Nigeria Natural  Medicine Development Agency (NNMDA), herbal medicines practice and production in Nigeria is about to witness a huge turnaround – a development that  can facilitate global best practices among traditional medicine practitioners (TMPs) in the country. According to the Minister for Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr Olorunnimbe Mamora, the international certification will also enhance empirical data generation for academic and industrial research in the field of natural medicine.  Mamora, who spoke at length about benefits of herbal medicine, disclosed that the laboratory was specifically designed with state-of-the-art equipment to support herbal medicine research and development, improve the export potential of drug raw materials, active pharmaceutical ingredients, and also support the general quality health infrastructure in the country. Recalling how the NNMDA laboratory project commenced in 2017, with the aim of resolving the barrage of health challenges bedevilling most nations of the world including Nigeria, Mamora expressed satisfaction with the completion of the laboratory with ISO17025-2017 certification on critical foods and drugs’ product line qualification.  Other critical purposes the research lab will serve including “development of ethno medicines/herbal medicines and products; assurance of the quality and standardisation of developed herbal medicines and products. Generation of the needed scientific data to show the potentials of every developed herbal medicines/products brought to the laboratory for evaluation; a platform for collaborative research from different institutions interested in ethno medicine; and a place for the evaluation of herbal medicines/products imported into the country.”  Also speaking at the event, Chairman, Governing Board, NNMDA, Pharm. Victor Terah Patrick, toed the line of Mamora on the need to harness indigenous medicines to the benefits of Nigerians. He urged the staff of the agency on adequate maintenance of the facility for sustainability and efficiency. Patrick also commended the NNMDA Director-General, Dr Sam Etatuvie, for his visionary leadership and efforts in repositioning the agency to perform its statutory duty of expanding the frontiers of natural medicine practice and enhancing global best practices in the field of natural medicine.   “We must leverage global recognition and return to the use of natural medicine. Let us harness its use to prevent, manage and treat diseases and enhance health/wellness, thus promoting the activities of the agency as well as generate interest and stimulate investment in natural/traditional medicine, which is our pride and heritage. I call on the entire staff of the agency to ensure that this General Laboratory Complex is well maintained, and deployed to serve the interest of the public. I believe this complex will improve the agency’s internally generated revenue and enhance its visibility.”  While appreciating everyone that contributed to the success of the agency, Dr Etatuvie expressed his delight in seeing his dream for the institution come true with the unveiling of the research laboratory. With the ISO 17025-2017 Certification, he stated that natural medicine practice in the country can now compete favourably with those in the global landscape. The NNMDA boss also sent a patronage invitation to all practitioners in Nigeria to seize the opportunity of a standardised research laboratory in refining their local products to be viable both in local and internationally markets. “The vision of this laboratory has been on my mind since 2017, so I thank God for bringing it to fruition today. The attainment of ISO Certification is a big leap for natural medicine development agency in the country. I know many labs in our country, but to successfully complete and commission such a standardised laboratory is not a common feat. I think it is a very big achievement for the agency.  “We want to encourage all natural medicine producers, all pharma manufacturers, to start to patronise the lab. We have well-trained consultants working in the lab. So you can conduct any type of laboratory test to provide data for the safety or efficacy of whatever medical or traditional therapy, useful for our people. Like the minister said, this is a very virgin land that this country must pay attention to. A lot of research has been done from the universities to other research institutes, but we need verification. If you claim that this is possible, we need a laboratory to gather the data that will convince the clinicians to be able to say yes, I’m confident that this product found the results the manufacturer claims it has got,” he said.