PHOTOS: Tinubu arrives Polling Unit 10: 10 am By Alao Abiodun  Atiku votes, says ‘I’m very optimistic’ By Anne Agbi Presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Atiku Abubakar, has said he is very optimistic about winning today’s poll. The former Vice President spoke after voting at his polling unit at the Commissioners Quarters, polling unit 12 with his wife. “I am very optimistic about today’s election, we do not expect uniform expectations all around the country, there is also a great turnout of credible voters. It shows that we are improving in our elections,” he said.  VIDEO: Tinubu leaves for polling unit Voting commences in some Ebonyi polling units By Ogochukwu Anioke, Abakaliki Voting has commenced in some polling units in Abakaliki metropolis, capital of Ebonyi State. The Nation correspondent monitoring proceedings at the polling units reports that voters turned out as early as 7am while electoral officers and materials arrived promptly at around 8am. At St Patrick’s Station Urban polling unit 002, voters started casting their votes at around 9am. At Abakaliki Township Stadium, a long queue of voters had already gathered and awaiting the electoral officers at 8am. Voting started at the polling unit following the arrival of election officer at around 8:30am. VIDEO: Voting process fine so far, says Senator Tinubu By Kemi Dauda Senator Oluremi Tinubu casts her vote in Falomo, Lagos  By Kemi Dauda Mood around Tinubu’s polling unit in Ikeja, Lagos 9:11 am   Polling Unit 027 Abraham Adesanya, Ajah Lagos .  Voters waiting for INEC Officials to arrive.  VIDEO: Senator Tinubu on queue to vote By Kemi Dauda Large turnout at Ward 3 unit 8 Ataoja C, Ward 1 Ataoja A, Unit 3 and Ward 3 Unit 3 Olorunda LGA, Osogbo ahead of commencement of voting exercise. By Toba Ayodeji  Angwan Ja’ma (Federal Ministry of Works Gate), Polling Unit, Angwan rimi, Keffi. As of 8:25 am, accreditation hasn’t started and INEC officials are yet to arrive. Also, electorates are already arriving at the polling unit. The polling unit is also within the vicinity of the APC Chairman’s residence. At Angwarimi Ward, GRA A1 Keffi, LERCEST Office, Polling Unit. As of 8:20 am, accreditation hasn’t started and INEC officials are yet to arrive. Also, electorates are already arriving at the polling unit. The polling unit is close to the APC Chairman’s residence. By Eric Ikhilae, Akin Oladokun, and Moses Emorinken  Corps members at Ikeja rack center – St. Peter’s Anglican Primary School, Alausa waiting for deployment. 8:40am Corps members complained of lack of transportation to convey them and the voting materials to various polling units. By Alao Abiodun VIDEO: Senator Remi Tinubu arrives polling unit By Kemi Dauda Electorates checking their names on the voters list at Area 10, Abuja By Tony Akowe  Comprehensive Development Secondary School, Owerri, INEC Centre in Owerri Municipal Council. Election officials yet to arrive at 8.40am By Chris Njoku, Owerri   A voter getting accredited at Polling Unit 002, Yaya Gusau Primary School, Sokoto By Nicholas Kalu Members of the Commonwealth Observation mission waiting for the commencement of accreditations and voting in Area 10, Abuja 8: 34 am By Tony Akowe   Polling Unit 031, Customary Court, Arab Road, Kubwa. Voters waiting for INEC officials as at 8:25 am By Jide Orintunsin   INEC Officials setting up at Sarki Yara A ward in Daura, Katsina, President Buhari’s Polling Unit By Augustine Okezie Anxious voters waiting for commencement of polls at Government Secondary School Garki in Area 10, Abuja 8:18 am By Tony Akowe Voters awaiting INEC officials at Ward 10, Unit 10, Bodija, Ibadan North LG at 8:16 am By Bisi Oladele INEC Ad-hoc staff collecting their sensitive materials at Government Secondary School Garki in Area 10, Abuja 8: 17 am By Tony Akowe   Setting up ongoing at St Andrews Community Primary school, Ipaja, Lagos Photo: Olusegun Rapheal  Alausa, Ikeja collation centre 8:05 am By Isaac Jimoh Ayodele Voters waiting to be accredited for the election at Polling Unit 002, Yaya Gusau Primary School, Sokoto at 8:14am ByNicholas Kalu INEC officials still collecting materials for their various polling units at a Registration Area Council (RAC) located Yaya Gusau Primary School, Sokoto at 7:54 am.  The Supervisory Presiding Officer, Muhammad Salihu, says there are 27 polling units under the RAC. By Nicholas Kalu Voters checking their names at Salvation Army School, Ayobo, Lagos 7: 51 am By Olusegun Raphael  Obafemi Awolowo Ikeja empty  By Isaac Jimoh Ayodele BREAKING: APC Chieftain escapes death in Anambra. His mansion burnt  Voter’s and observers waiting for Electoral officers at a polling unit on Durban Street, Wuse 2, FCT. 7:28 am By Bolaji Ogundele  Senator Remi Tinubu’s polling unit as at 7:06 am  By Kemi Dauda Ever busy Ikeja under bridge deserted  Photo: Isaac Jimoh Ayodele VIDEO: Lagos agog for final APC presidential rally Atiku not in contention, says Senator Adeyemi Akeredolu urges massive votes for Tinubu   Akeredolu said the choice of Tinubu could not be faulted owing to political workings of the country. Speaking at a stakeholders meeting in Owo, Owo local government, Akeredolu said Tinubu has a track record of achievement. The Ondo Governor said Tinubu’s achievements towered above others. He said: “We are supporting him not because we are from the same tribe but because he’s competent. “Tinubu is a trusted and tested leader. Our insistence on Southern Presidency is for fairness and equality. An Awoist and legal practitioner, Barr. Eddy Osifo, had faulted comments by Chief  Afe Babalola that the outcome of next Saturday’s presidential election would depend on the deepness of the candidates’ pocket. Osifo argued that the winner would depend on the level of sophistication and political methodology. In a statement in Akure, Barr. Osifo said Tinubu, appeared more sophisticated and methodical in a approach to campaigns as well as reaching out to electorates. Barr. Osifo stated that Tinubu has the brightest chance of winning the presidential election. He said the victory of Tinubu would not be dependent on deep pockedtedness but the level of sophistication in style. “If  Tinubu wins on Saturday, it will  not  be  due  to his  deep  pocketedness  but  to  the  level  of  sophistication  in  his  style.”