FinDev Canada is providing a five-year amortised term loan of up to $55 million to ETG Group to support smallholder African farmers connected to international markets. ETG empowers farming communities through the distribution of quality fertiliser and agricultural inputs to optimise yields, through its network of strategically placed distribution centres and storage facilities, logistical solutions and creating local and international markets for their produce. With the support of its foundations, ETG developed numerous initiatives to uplift farming communities and is a key player in the Sustain Africa program, which supports quality input products, such as fertilizer, as a necessary step toward food security. “This loan is a real opportunity for FinDev Canada to contribute towards food security in a time when different global challenges have had a severe impact on food supplies. In addition, this provides an opportunity for future engagements and increases FinDev Canada’s impact across the African continent,” Chief Investment Officer of FinDev Canada, Paulo Martelli, said. ETG’s Chief Treasury Officer, Anish Jain, said: “One of ETG’s top priorities is to play an active role in establishing food security in Africa. We remain passionate and committed to uplifting farming communities through the provision of quality inputs, agronomy support, training and development on smart agriculture techniques and to implement value addition through processing locally. “We are extremely grateful to FinDev Canada for providing us with another facility to increase our efforts.  We have built a strong relationship with the institution and look forward to creating a positive impact with their support.” FinDev Canada is already a lender to ETG, who has since developed a gender action policy to be finalized early this year and is working to improve women’s economic empowerment, which is a key priority for FinDev Canada. ETG also supports Sustain Africa, an emergency response and resilience initiative to improve availability, affordability and effective and sustainable use of fertilizers while avoiding market distortion, founded by the African Fertilizer and Agribusiness Partnership (AFAP), Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Rabobank and International Fertilizer Association with the support of Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA). Through this investment, FinDev Canada became the first development finance institution officially recognized as a supporter of Sustain Africa.