•Lagos State govt’s decision to feed the vulnerable due to cash crisis is worthy of emulation It would appear that those public officers who take a rigid stand on the current Naira swap crisis, insisting that the deadline for the old N200, N500 and N1000 to cease to be legal tender remains fixed and inflexible are unaware of the suffering and agony millions of Nigerians have been plunged into by this Ill-conceived and poorly implemented policy. Not even the daily sight of thousands of Nigerians queuing for hours in banking halls and ATM points, wasting precious man hours, straining their health and getting emotionally worked up appears enough to convince the architects of the policy that there is something fundamentally wrong with the implementation. What naturally angers most people is that they cannot access their own money kept in several bank accounts even when they have to procure necessities or need cash to meet unanticipated emergencies. This has led to bizarre incidents such as customers stripping themselves virtually naked in banking halls, others threatening to commit suicide while ATM machines have been vandalised and banking halls burnt in a number of states where the situation has degenerated to violence. There is no doubt the avoidable Naira shortage crisis has compounded the hardship and worsened the poverty being endured by majority of Nigerians as a result of the protracted fuel crisis that has inexplicably lingered since December last year. One public officer who has responded with remarkable and commendable empathy and compassion to this unfortunate situation is the Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Barely days into the Naira shortage crisis, and with the hardship increasingly biting hard daily, the governor announced a number of measures to cushion the effect on the poorest and most vulnerable members of the society. One of the measures taken by the Lagos State governor was to reduce by half till the crisis is resolved, fares on all Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) vehicles, publicly owned ferry services, Lagride vehicles, Last Mile buses and all other transportation services being provided by the Lagos State government. He also announced that food packs would be distributed free to the poorest members of the society most affected by the cash scarcity crisis. True to Sanwo-Olu’s word, the state government last week commenced the distribution of the free food packs to hundreds of recipients who had assembled at the Adeyemi Bero Auditorium at the state secretariat at a ceremony presided over by the deputy governor, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, who stood in for the governor. According to Hamzat, “We are doing this to alleviate the pains and sufferings of Lagosians. What’s inside the boxes are various items for the consumption of the vulnerable in our society”. The proactive steps taken by the state government on the matter is indeed understandable. As the country’s commercial nerve-centre, Lagos certainly has the largest number of bank branches in the country. A far higher number of persons are also likely to be affected by the crisis in the state. A lesson of the last #EndSARS demonstrations is also that when mass actions degenerate to violence, Lagos is always the most badly hit. The state lost over two trillion Naira worth of public and private property during the #EndSARS crisis. It is noteworthy that the Lagos State government has said that the distribution of the palliatives will be continual and that it would be reaching people through religious centres, non-governmental organisations and other distribution channels. It will be impracticable to ask all vulnerable persons to converge on the state secretariat daily to receive the items. The government has a responsibility to ensure that the palliatives get into the hands of those for whom they are meant and are not cornered by civil servants or politicians. We must also avoid a scenario witnessed during the #EndSARS crisis when items meant for the poor during the Coronavirus pandemic were kept in warehouses and looted by angry mobs. Even as the legal squabbles over the Naira swap policy continue, it is important that other states emulate Lagos and take steps to mitigate the sufferings of the poor due to the unavailability of cash.