The Department of State Services (DSS) yesterday arrested the Abia State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Uzochukwu Chijioke. He was reportedly arrested and detained at the custody of the DSS in Umuahia, the state capital, foe allegation of deliberately delaying electoral materials to their various polling units in the state.  The police have also arrested a man, Mr. Gabriel Agabi, for alleged impersonation and having in his possession 17 Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) not programmed for the ward where he was arrested.  The administrative secretary of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Abia State, Celestine Oha, addressed reporters on behalf of the REC.  When contacted, INEC’s spokesman in the state, Bamidele Oyetunji, denied the arrest, but said he was asked to step aside.  When asked to explain why the REC was asked to step aside, Oyetunji declined further comments.  Agabi, who was arrested following a tip-off, wore the INEC jacket at the collation centre at Okpoma in Yala Local Government Area of Cross River State.  He was later taken to the Ogoja INEC office, where he confessed to having impersonated an INEC official, Dr. Dominic Abakedi.  After the confessional statement, the police took him to the Ogoja Area Command for further investigation by the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) unit.  The alleged impostor claimed to be a lecturer in Philosophy Department of the University of Calabar (UNICAL) and hails from Ugoro Community in Bekwarra Local Government Area.  He impersonated the INEC Collation Officer for Yache Ward in Yala Local Government Area of the state, Dr. Dominic Abakedi.  One of the BVAS found in his possession had the following details: “BVAS No: 09/18/10/012 with 216 accredited voters and 250 votes cast.” The impostor, who was alleged to have been playing the script of a party agent, had, in collaboration with others, locked up all the agents of other parties in the ward.  He was also alleged to have disappeared since the close of voting around 6 p.m. on Saturday and only resurfaced at the senatorial district collation center in Ogoja at past 5 p.m yesterday.  A senior police officer at the scene, who preferred anonymity, confirmed the development.  The Commissioner of Police in charge of elections in the district, Zannah Shettima, declined comment on the matter, stressing that he was yet to be briefed.  “I don’t have the details and so I can’t speak on it,” he told reporters. Agabi claimed to be a lecturer in the Philosophy Department and hails from Ugoro Community in Bekwarra Local Government Area of the state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the collation of Cross North Senatorial results was ongoing at the time of filing this report.