The All Progressive Congress (APC) in Diaspora (North America Chapter) has appealed to Senate President Ahmed Lawan, Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila and relevant stakeholders to ensure speedy passage of the Diaspora Voting Bill. It said the Bill if passed into law would have a tremendous impact on democracy as it would give a sense of belonging to thousands of Nigerians in the diaspora in the quest for the economic and political development of the nation. A statement by the chairman of APC in Diaspora, Hon. Olalekan Sanni lamented the Bill, championed by Nigeria in Diaspora Commission (NIDTO) had suffered delays in its consideration and passage as a result huge volume of bills and other pressing assignments before the National Assembly. According to him, Diaspora APC is a sister part of the party in the Diaspora which has been consistently committed to the growth, development and agenda of Nigeria. Read Also : ‘Obidents’ will suffer heartbreaks, despair — APC He said: “The light of the importance and impact of the bill on our polity and teeming Nigerians in the diaspora who are eager and willing to actively contribute to the political process of electing political leaders in the country the bill should be given premium consideration to ensure its accelerated consideration and passage by the house possibly before the end of the tenure of the present National Assembly.” “Large percentage of our Representatives and National officers, are residing, working or raising their families in the Diaspora, may corroborate this view, Diaspora voting will accommodate Nigerians living abroad in the Electoral and Voting process in Nigeria.” The group also appealed to the National Assembly to quickly wade into the crisis generated by the currency swap policy of the Federal Government, saying every policy must have a human face. “The mandate is God’s plan for the progress of our great country, and we believe it can never be derailed, we pledge our total loyalty to the party and the mandate of our Principal, Leader and incoming President. “Whoever is advising the President to take a decision against the judgement of the highest court in the land is not only making a mockery of the judiciary and the entire nation, but also posing a big threat to our hard-earned democracy, so, we implore and plead with fellow citizens not to allow this happen by being patient and calm, for the law to take it course,” it said.